Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
UNSUPERVISED NEURAL MACHINE TRANSLATION
Anonymous authors Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
In spite of the recent success of neural machine translation (NMT) in standard benchmarks, the lack of large parallel corpora poses a major practical problem for many language pairs. There have been several proposals to alleviate this issue with, for instance, triangulation and semi-supervised learning techniques, but they still require a strong cross-lingual signal. In this work, we completely remove the need of parallel data and propose a novel method to train an NMT system in a completely unsupervised manner, relying on nothing but monolingual corpora. Our model builds upon the recent work on unsupervised embedding mappings, and consists of a slightly modified attentional encoder-decoder model that can be trained on monolingual corpora alone using a combination of denoising and backtranslation. Despite the simplicity of the approach, our system obtains 15.56 and 10.21 BLEU points in WMT 2014 French  English and German  English translation. The model can also profit from small parallel corpora, and attains 21.81 and 15.24 points when combined with 100,000 parallel sentences, respectively. Our approach is a breakthrough in unsupervised NMT, and opens exciting opportunities for future research.
1 INTRODUCTION
Neural machine translation (NMT) has recently become the dominant paradigm to machine translation (Bahdanau et al., 2014; Sutskever et al., 2014). As opposed to the traditional statistical machine translation (SMT), NMT systems are trained end-to-end, take advantage of continuous representations that greatly alleviate the sparsity problem, and make use of much larger contexts, thus mitigating the locality problem. Thanks to this, NMT has been reported to significantly improve over SMT both in automatic metrics and human evaluation (Wu et al., 2016).
Nevertheless, for the same reasons described above, NMT requires a large parallel corpus to be effective, and is known to fail when the training data is not big enough (Koehn & Knowles, 2017). Unfortunately, the lack of large parallel corpora is a practical problem for the vast majority of language pairs, including low-resource languages (e.g. Basque) as well as many combinations of major languages (e.g. German-Russian). Several authors have recently tried to address this problem using pivoting or triangulation techniques (Chen et al., 2017) as well as semi-supervised approaches (He et al., 2016), but these methods still require a strong cross-lingual signal.
In this work, we eliminate the need of cross-lingual information and propose a novel method to train NMT systems in a completely unsupervised manner, relying solely on monolingual corpora. Our approach builds upon the recent work on unsupervised cross-lingual embeddings (Artetxe et al., 2017; Zhang et al., 2017). Thanks to a shared encoder for both translation directions that uses these fixed cross-lingual embeddings, the entire system can be trained, with monolingual data, to reconstruct its input. In order to learn useful structural information, noise in the form of random token swaps is introduced in this input. In addition to denoising, we also incorporate backtranslation (Sennrich et al., 2016a) into the training procedure to further improve results. Figure 1 summarizes this general schema of the proposed system.
In spite of the simplicity of the approach, our experiments show that the proposed system can reach up to 15.56 BLEU points for French  English and 10.21 BLEU points for German  English in the standard WMT 2014 translation task using nothing but monolingual training data. Moreover, we show that combining this method with 100,000 parallel sentences can further improve the results to 21.81 and 15.24 BLEU points, respectively. Our manual analysis confirms the effectiveness of
1

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

Shared encoder (L1/L2)
... ...
fixed cross-lingual embeddings

attention

attention

L1 decoder
softmax
... ...
L2 decoder
softmax
... ...

Figure 1: Architecture of the proposed system. For each sentence in language L1, the system is trained alternating two steps: denoising, which optimizes the probability of encoding a noised version of the sentence with the shared encoder and reconstructing it with the L1 decoder, and backtranslation, which translates the sentence in inference mode (encoding it with the shared encoder and decoding it with the L2 decoder) and then optimizes the probability of encoding this translated sentence with the shared encoder and recovering the original sentence with the L1 decoder. Training alternates between sentences in L1 and L2, with analogous steps for the latter.
the proposed approach, revealing that the system is learning non-trivial translation relations that go beyond a word-by-word substitution.
The remaining of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 analyzes the related work. Section 3 then describes the proposed method. The experimental settings are discussed in Section 4, while Section 5 presents and discusses the obtained results. Section 6 concludes the paper.
2 RELATED WORK
We will first discuss unsupervised cross-lingual embeddings, which are the basis of our proposal, in Section 2.1. Section 2.2 then addresses statistical decipherment, an SMT-inspired approach to build a machine translation system in an unsupervised manner. Finally, Section 2.3 presents previous work on training NMT systems in different low-resource scenarios.
2.1 UNSUPERVISED CROSS-LINGUAL EMBEDDINGS
Most methods for learning cross-lingual word embeddings rely on some bilingual signal at the document level, typically in the form of parallel corpora (Gouws et al., 2015; Luong et al., 2015a). Closer to our scenario, embedding mapping methods independently train the embeddings in different languages using monolingual corpora, and then learn a linear transformation that maps them to a shared space based on a bilingual dictionary (Mikolov et al., 2013a; Lazaridou et al., 2015; Artetxe et al., 2016; Smith et al., 2017). While the dictionary used in these earlier work typically contains a few thousands entries, Artetxe et al. (2017) propose a simple self-learning extension that gives comparable results with an automatically generated list of numerals, which is used as a shortcut for practical unsupervised learning. Alternatively, adversarial training has also been proposed to learn such mappings in an unsupervised manner (Miceli Barone, 2016; Zhang et al., 2017).
2.2 STATISTICAL DECIPHERMENT
There is a considerable body of work in statistical decipherment techniques to induce a machine translation model from monolingual data, which follows the same noisy-channel model used by SMT (Ravi & Knight, 2011; Dou & Knight, 2012). More concretely, they treat the source language
2

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
as ciphertext, and model the process by which this ciphertext is generated as a two-stage process involving the generation of the original English sequence and the probabilistic replacement of the words in it. The English generative process is modeled using a standard n-gram language model, and the channel model parameters are estimated using either expectation maximization or Bayesian inference. This approach was shown to benefit from the incorporation of syntactic knowledge of the languages involved (Dou & Knight, 2013; Dou et al., 2015). More in line with our proposal, the use of word embeddings has also been shown to bring significant improvements in statistical decipherment (Dou et al., 2015).
2.3 LOW-RESOURCE NEURAL MACHINE TRANSLATION
There have been several proposals to exploit resources other than direct parallel corpora to train NMT systems. The scenario that is most often considered is one where two languages have little or no parallel data between them but are well connected through a third language (e.g. there might be little direct resources for German-Russian but plenty for German-English and English-Russian). The most basic approach in this scenario is to independently translate from the source language to the pivot language and from the pivot language to the target language. It has however been shown that the use of more advanced models like a teacher-student framework can bring considerable improvements over this basic baseline (Firat et al., 2016b; Chen et al., 2017). In the same line, Johnson et al. (2017) show that a multilingual extension of a standard NMT architecture performs reasonably well even for language pairs for which no direct data was given during training.
To the best of our knowledge, the more ambitious scenario where an NMT model is trained from monolingual corpora alone has never been explored to date, but He et al. (2016) made an important contribution in this direction. More concretely, their method trains two agents to translate in opposite directions (e.g. French  English and English  French), and make them teach each other through a reinforcement learning process. While promising, this approach still requires a parallel corpus of a considerable size for a warm start (1.2 million sentences in the reported experiments), whereas our work does not use any parallel data at all.
3 PROPOSED METHOD
This section describes the proposed unsupervised NMT approach. Section 3.1 first presents the architecture of the proposed system, and Section 3.2 then describes the method to train it in an unsupervised manner.
3.1 SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
As shown in Figure 1, the proposed system follows a fairly standard encoder-decoder architecture with an attention mechanism (Bahdanau et al., 2014). More concretely, we use a two-layer bidirectional RNN in the encoder, and another two-layer RNN in the decoder. All RNNs use GRU cells with 600 hidden units (Cho et al., 2014), and the dimensionality of the embeddings is set to 300. As for the attention mechanism, we use the global attention method proposed by Luong et al. (2015b) with the general alignment function. There are, however, three important aspects in which our system differs from the standard NMT, and these are critical so the system can be trained in an unsupervised manner as described next in Section 3.2:
1. Dual structure. While NMT systems are typically built for a specific translation direction (e.g. either French  English or English  French), we exploit the dual nature of machine translation (He et al., 2016; Firat et al., 2016a) and handle both directions together (e.g. French  English).
2. Shared encoder. Our system makes use of one and only one encoder that is shared by both languages involved, similarly to Ha et al. (2016), Lee et al. (2017) and Johnson et al. (2017). For instance, the exact same encoder would be used for both French and English. This universal encoder is aimed to produce a language independent representation of the input text, which each decoder should then transform into its corresponding language.
3. Fixed embeddings in the encoder. While most NMT systems randomly initialize their embeddings and update them during training, we use pre-trained cross-lingual embeddings
3

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
in the encoder that are kept fixed during training. This way, the encoder is given language independent word-level representations, and it only needs to learn how to compose them to build representations of larger phrases. As discussed in Section 2.1, there are several unsupervised methods to train these cross-lingual embeddings from monolingual corpora, so this is perfectly feasible in our scenario. Note that, even if the embeddings are crosslingual, we use separate vocabularies for each language. This way, the word chair, which exists both in French and English (meaning "flesh" in the former), would get a different vector in each language, although they would both be in a common space.
3.2 UNSUPERVISED TRAINING
As NMT systems are typically trained to predict the translations in a parallel corpus, such supervised training procedure is infeasible in our scenario, where we only have access to monolingual corpora. However, thanks to the architectural modifications proposed above, we are able to train the entire system in an unsupervised manner using the following two strategies:
1. Denoising. Thanks to the use of a shared encoder, and exploiting the dual structure of machine translation, the proposed system can be directly trained to reconstruct its own input. More concretely, the whole system can be optimized to take an input sentence in a given language, encode it using the shared encoder, and reconstruct the original sentence using the decoder of that language. Given that we use pre-trained cross-lingual embeddings in the shared encoder, this encoder should learn to compose the embeddings of both languages in a language-independent fashion, and each decoder should learn to decompose this representation into their corresponding language. At inference time, we simply replace the decoder with that of the target language, so it generates the translation of the input text from the language-independent representation given by the encoder. Nevertheless, this ideal behavior is severely compromised by the fact that the resulting training procedure is essentially a trivial copying task. As such, the optimal solution for this task would not need to capture the internal structure of the languages involved, as there would be many degenerated solutions that blindly copy all the elements in the input sequence. If this were the case, the system would at best make very literal word-by-word substitutions when used to translate from one language to another at inference time. In order to avoid such degenerated solutions and make the encoder truly learn the compositionality of its input words in a language independent manner, we propose to introduce random noise in the input sentences. The idea is to exploit the same underlying principle of denoising autoencoders (Vincent et al., 2010), where the system is trained to reconstruct the original version of a corrupted input sentence (Hill et al., 2017). For that purpose, we alter the word order of the input sentence by making random swaps between contiguous words. More concretely, for a sequence of N elements, we make N/2 random swaps of this kind. This way, the system needs to learn about the internal structure of the languages involved to be able to recover the correct word order. At the same time, by discouraging the system to rely too much on the word order of the input sequence, we can better account for the actual word order divergences across languages.
2. Backtranslation. In spite of the denoising strategy, the training procedure above is still a copying task with some synthetic alterations that, most importantly, involves a single language at each time, without considering our final goal of translating between two languages. In order to train our system in a true translation setting without violating the constraint of using nothing but monolingual corpora, we propose to adapt the backtranslation approach proposed by Sennrich et al. (2016a) to our scenario. More concretely, given an input sentence in a given language, we use the system in inference mode with greedy decoding to translate it to the other language (i.e. apply the shared encoder and the decoder of the other language). This way, we obtain a pseudo-parallel corpus, and train the system to predict the original sentence from this translation.
During training, we alternate these different training objectives from batch to batch. This way, given two languages L1 and L2, each iteration would perform one batch of denoising for L1, another one for L2, one batch of backtranslation from L1 to L2, and another one from L2 to L1. Moreover, by further assuming that we have access to a small parallel corpus, the system can also be trained in
4

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
a semi-supervised fashion by combining these steps with directly predicting the translations in this parallel corpus just as in standard NMT.
4 EXPERIMENTAL SETTINGS
We make our experiments comparable with previous work by using the French-English and GermanEnglish datasets from the WMT 2014 shared task.1 Following common practice, the systems are evaluated on newstest2014 using tokenized BLEU scores as computed by the multi-bleu.perl script.2 As for the training data, we test the proposed system under three different settings:
· Unsupervised: This is the main scenario under consideration in our work, where the system has access to nothing but monolingual corpora. For that purpose, we used the News Crawl corpus with articles from 2007 to 2013.
· Semi-supervised: We assume that, in addition to monolingual corpora, we also have access to a small in-domain parallel corpus. This scenario has a great practical interest, as we might often have some parallel data from which we could potentially benefit, but it is insufficient to train a full traditional NMT system. For that purpose, we used the same monolingual data from the unsupervised settings together with 100,000 random sentence pairs from the News Commentary parallel corpus.
· Supervised: This is the traditional scenario in NMT where we have access to a large parallel corpus. While not the focus of our work, this setting should provide an approximate upper-bound for the proposed system. For that purpose, we used the combination of all parallel corpora provided at WMT 2014, which comprise Europarl, Common Crawl and News Commentary for both language pairs plus the UN and the Gigaword corpus for FrenchEnglish.
Note that, to be faithful to our target scenario, we did not make use of any parallel data in these language pairs for development or tuning purposes. Instead, we used Spanish-English WMT data for our preliminary experiments, where we also decided all the hyperparameters without any rigorous exploration.
As for the corpus preprocessing, we perform tokenization and truecasing using standard Moses tools.3 We then apply byte pair encoding (BPE) as proposed by Sennrich et al. (2016b) using the implementation provided by the authors.4 Learning was done on the monolingual corpus of each language independently, using 50,000 operations. While BPE is known to be an effective way to overcome the rare word problem in standard NMT, it is less clear how it would perform in our more challenging unsupervised scenario, as it might be difficult to learn the translation relations between subword units. For that reason, we also run experiments at the word level in this unsupervised scenario, limiting the vocabulary to the most frequent 50,000 tokens and replacing the rest with a special token <UNK>. We accelerate training by discarding all sentences with more than 50 elements (either BPE units or actual tokens).
Given that the proposed system uses pre-trained cross-lingual embeddings in the encoder as described in Section 3.1, we use the monolingual corpora described above to independently train the embeddings for each language using word2vec (Mikolov et al., 2013b). More concretely, we use the skip-gram model with ten negative samples, a context window of ten words, 300 dimensions, a sub-sampling of 10-5, and ten training iterations. We then use the public implementation5 of the method proposed by Artetxe et al. (2017) to map these embeddings to a shared space, using the recommended configuration with numeral-based initialization. In addition to being a component of the proposed system, the resulting embeddings are also used to build a simple baseline system that translates a sentence word-by-word, replacing each word by their nearest neighbor in the other language and leaving out-of-vocabularies unchanged.
1 http://www.statmt.org/wmt14/translation-task.html 2https://github.com/moses-smt/mosesdecoder/blob/master/scripts/generic/ multi-bleu.perl 3https://github.com/moses-smt/mosesdecoder 4https://github.com/rsennrich/subword-nmt 5https://github.com/artetxem/vecmap
5

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

Table 1: BLEU scores in newstest2014. Unsupervised systems are trained in the News Crawl monolingual corpus, semi-supervised systems are trained in the News Crawl monolingual corpus and 100,000 sentences from the News Commentary parallel corpus, and supervised systems (provided for comparison) are trained in the full parallel corpus, all from WMT 2014. For GNMT, we report the best single model scores from Wu et al. (2016).

Unsupervised
Semi-supervised Supervised

1. Baseline (emb. nearest neighbor) 2. Proposed (denoising) 3. Proposed (+ backtranslation) 4. Proposed (+ BPE)
5. Proposed (full) + 100k parallel
6. Comparable NMT 7. GNMT (Wu et al., 2016)

FR-EN
9.98 7.28 15.56 15.56
21.81
20.48 -

EN-FR
6.25 5.33 15.13 14.36
21.74
19.89 38.95

DE-EN
7.07 3.64 10.21 10.16
15.24
15.04 -

EN-DE
4.39 2.40 6.55 6.89
10.95
11.05 24.61

The training of the proposed system itself is done using the procedure described in Section 3.2 with the cross-entropy loss function and a batch size of 50 sentences. For the unsupervised systems, we try using denoising alone as well as the combination of both denoising and backtranslation, in order to better analyze the contribution of the latter. We use Adam as our optimizer with a learning rate of  = 0.0002 Kingma & Ba (2015). During training, we use dropout regularization with a drop probability p = 0.3. Given that we restrict ourselves not to use any parallel data for development purposes, we perform a fixed number of iterations (300,000) to train each variant. Using our PyTorch implementation, each training run took about 4-5 days on a single Titan X GPU for the full unsupervised variant. Although we observed that the system had not fully converged after this number of iterations in our preliminary experiments, we decide to stop training at this point in order to accelerate experimentation due to hardware constraints.
As described in Section 3.2, we use greedy decoding at training time for backtranslation, but actual inference at test time was done using beam-search with a beam size of 12. We do not use any length or coverage penalty, which might further improve the reported results.
5 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
We discuss the quantitative results in Section 5.1, and present a qualitative analysis in Section 5.2.
5.1 QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS
The BLEU scores obtained by all the tested variants are reported in Table 1.
As it can be seen, the proposed unsupervised system obtains very strong results considering that it was trained on nothing but monolingual corpora, reaching 14-15 BLEU points in French-English and 6-10 BLEU points in German-English depending on the variant and direction (rows 3 and 4). This is much stronger than the baseline system of word-by-word substitution (row 1), with improvements of at least 40% in all cases, and up to 140% in some (e.g. from 6.25 to 15.13 BLEU points in English  French). This shows that the proposed system is able to go beyond very literal translations, effectively learning to use context information and account for the internal structure of the languages.
The results also show that backtranslation is essential for the proposed system to work properly. In fact, the denoising technique alone is below the baseline (row 1 vs 2), while big improvements are seen when introducing backtranslation (row 2 vs 3). Test perplexities also confirm this: for instance, the proposed system with denoising alone obtains a per-word perplexity of 634.79 for French  English, whereas the one with backtranslation achieves a much lower perplexity of 44.74. We emphasize, however, that it is not possible to use backtranslation alone without denoising, as the initial translations would be meaningless sentences produced by a random NMT model, encouraging the system to completely ignore the input sentence and simply learn a language model of the target
6

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
language. We thus conclude that both denoising and backtranslation play an essential role during training: denoising forces the system to capture broad word-level equivalences, while backtranslation encourages it to learn more subtle relations in an increasingly natural setting.
As for the role of subword translation, we observe that BPE is slightly beneficial when German is the target language, detrimental when French is the target language, and practically equivalent when English is the target language (row 3 vs 4). This might be a bit surprising considering that the wordlevel system does not handle out-of-vocabularies in any way, so it always fails to translate rare words. Having a closer look, however, we observe that, while BPE manages to correctly translate some rare words, it also introduces some new errors. In particular, it sometimes happens that a subword unit from a rare word gets prefixed to a properly translated word, yielding to translations like SevAgency (split as S- ev- Agency). Moreover, we observe that BPE is of little help when translating infrequent named entities. For instance, we observed that our system translated Tymoshenko as Ebferchenko (split as Eb- fer- chenko). While standard NMT would easily learn to copy this kind of named entities using BPE, such relations are much more challenging to model under our unsupervised learning procedure. This way, we believe that a better handling of rare words and, in particular, named entities and numerals, could further improve the results in the future.
In addition to that, the results of the semi-supervised system (row 5) show that the proposed model can greatly benefit from a small parallel corpus. 100,000 sentences of in-domain data, which would be insufficient to train a standard NMT system (Koehn & Knowles, 2017), bring an improvement of 4-7 BLEU points, surpassing the comparable NMT system trained in a much larger parallel corpus in all cases but one. This shows the great potential of the proposed system for real-world, low-resource scenarios, in which standard NMT might not be a viable option but the strictly unsupervised setting might be unnecessarily restrictive.
As for the supervised system, it is remarkable that the comparable NMT model (row 6), which uses the proposed architecture but trains it to predict the translations in the full parallel corpus, obtains poor results compared to the state of the art in NMT (e.g. GNMT in row 7). Note that this comparable NMT system differs from standard NMT in the use of a shared encoder with fixed embeddings (Section 3.1) and input corruption (Section 3.2). Additionally, the supervised system in this paper is relatively small and does not exploit a validation set during training (Sections 3.1 and 4). Therefore, these modifications in our system, which were introduced to enable unsupervised learning, may also be a factor limiting its potential performance. This suggests that, by detecting and mitigating the specific causes of this detriment, there is still a potential to further improve the performance of our unsupervised NMT system.
5.2 QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS
In order to better understand the behavior of the proposed system, we manually analyzed some translations for French  English, and present some illustrative examples in Table 2.
Our analysis shows that the proposed system is able to produce high-quality translations, adequately modeling non-trivial translation relations. For instance, in the first example it translates the expression a eu lieu (literally "has taken place") as occurred, going beyond a literal word-by-word substitution. At the same time, it correctly translates l'ae´roport international de Los Angeles as Los Angeles International Airport, properly modeling structural differences between the languages. As shown by the second example, the system is also capable of producing high-quality translations for considerably longer and more complex sentences.
Nevertheless, our analysis also points that the proposed system has limitations and, perhaps not surprisingly, its translation quality often lags behind that of a standard supervised NMT system. In particular, we observe that the proposed model has difficulties to preserve some concrete details from source sentences. For instance, in the third example April and 2008 are properly translated, but octobre ("October") is mistranslated as May and 1 073 as 1 064. While these clearly point to some adequacy issues, they are also understandable given the unsupervised nature of the system, and it is remarkable that the system managed to at least replace a month by another month and a number by another close number. We believe that incorporating character level information might help to mitigate some of these issues, as it could for instance favor October as the translation of octobre instead of the selected May.
7

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

Table 2: Sample FrenchEnglish translations from newstest2014 by the full proposed system with BPE. See text for comments.

Source

Reference

Proposed system (full)

Une fusillade a eu lieu a` There was a shooting in Los An- A shooting occurred at Los An-

l'ae´roport international de Los geles International Airport.

geles International Airport.

Angeles.

Cette controverse croissante autour de l'agence a provoque´ beaucoup de spe´culations selon lesquelles l'incident de ce soir e´tait le re´sultat d'une cyberope´ration cible´e.

Such growing controversy surrounding the agency prompted early speculation that tonight's incident was the result of a targeted cyber operation.

This growing scandal around the agency has caused much speculation about how this incident was the outcome of a targeted cyber operation.

Le nombre total de morts en octobre est le plus e´leve´ depuis avril 2008, quand 1 073 personnes avaient e´te´ tue´es.
A` l'exception de l'ope´ra, la province reste le parent pauvre de la culture en France.

The total number of deaths in October is the highest since April 2008, when 1,073 people were killed.
With the exception of opera, the provinces remain the poor relative of culture in France.

The total number of deaths in May is the highest since April 2008, when 1 064 people had been killed.
At an exception, opera remains of the state remains the poorest parent culture.

Finally, there are also some cases where there are both fluency and adequacy problems that severely hinders understanding the original message from the proposed translation. For instance, in the last example our system preserves most keywords in the original sentence, but it would be difficult to correctly guess its meaning just by looking at its translation. In concordance with our quantitative analysis, this suggests that, despite the breakthrough in unsupervised NMT, there is still room for improvement, opening new research avenues for the future.
6 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
In this work, we propose a novel method to train an NMT system in a completely unsupervised manner. We build upon existing work on unsupervised cross-lingual embeddings (Artetxe et al., 2017; Zhang et al., 2017), and incorporate them in a modified attentional encoder-decoder model. By using a shared encoder with these fixed cross-lingual embeddings, we are able to train the system from monolingual corpora alone, combining denoising and backtranslation.
The experiments show the effectiveness of our proposal, obtaining significant improvements in the BLEU score over a baseline system that performs word-by-word substitution in the standard WMT 2014 French-English and German-English benchmarks. Our manual analysis confirms the quality of the proposed system, showing that it is able to model complex cross-lingual relations and produce high-quality translations. Moreover, we show that combining our method with a small parallel corpus can bring further improvements, which is of practical interest for those scenarios where a small amount of data is available but is not sufficient to train a full NMT system.
Our work opens exciting opportunities for future research, as our analysis reveals that, in spite of this breakthrough in unsupervised NMT, there is still a considerable room for improvement. In particular, we observe that the performance of a comparable supervised NMT system is considerably below the state of the art, which suggests that the modifications introduced by our proposal are also limiting its potential performance. For that reason, we would like to detect and mitigate the specific causes of this detriment. In case it were infeasible to directly address them, we would like to explore a twostage process where we first train the system as we currently do and then fine-tune it after reverting the main architectural modifications. Additionally, we will consider incorporating character level information into the model, which we believe that could be very helpful to address some of the adequacy issues we observed. At the same time, we also think that a better handling of rare words and, in particular, named entities, could further improve the results.
8

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
REFERENCES
Mikel Artetxe, Gorka Labaka, and Eneko Agirre. Learning principled bilingual mappings of word embeddings while preserving monolingual invariance. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 2289­2294, Austin, Texas, November 2016. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL https://aclweb.org/ anthology/D16-1250.
Mikel Artetxe, Gorka Labaka, and Eneko Agirre. Learning bilingual word embeddings with (almost) no bilingual data. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 451­462, Vancouver, Canada, July 2017. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://aclweb.org/anthology/P17-1042.
Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Neural machine translation by jointly learning to align and translate. In Proceedings of the 2014 International Conference on Learning Representations, 2014.
Yun Chen, Yang Liu, Yong Cheng, and Victor O.K. Li. A teacher-student framework for zeroresource neural machine translation. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 1925­1935, Vancouver, Canada, July 2017. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://aclweb.org/ anthology/P17-1176.
Kyunghyun Cho, Bart van Merrienboer, Caglar Gulcehre, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Fethi Bougares, Holger Schwenk, and Yoshua Bengio. Learning phrase representations using rnn encoder­decoder for statistical machine translation. In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pp. 1724­1734, Doha, Qatar, October 2014. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/ D14-1179.
Qing Dou and Kevin Knight. Large scale decipherment for out-of-domain machine translation. In Proceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning, pp. 266­275, Jeju Island, Korea, July 2012. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/ D12-1025.
Qing Dou and Kevin Knight. Dependency-based decipherment for resource-limited machine translation. In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 1668­1676, Seattle, Washington, USA, October 2013. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D13-1173.
Qing Dou, Ashish Vaswani, Kevin Knight, and Chris Dyer. Unifying bayesian inference and vector space models for improved decipherment. In Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 836­845, Beijing, China, July 2015. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/ P15-1081.
Orhan Firat, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Multi-way, multilingual neural machine translation with a shared attention mechanism. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pp. 866­875, San Diego, California, June 2016a. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N16-1101.
Orhan Firat, Baskaran Sankaran, Yaser Al-Onaizan, Fatos T. Yarman Vural, and Kyunghyun Cho. Zero-resource translation with multi-lingual neural machine translation. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 268­277, Austin, Texas, November 2016b. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL https://aclweb. org/anthology/D16-1026.
Stephan Gouws, Yoshua Bengio, and Greg Corrado. BilBOWA: Fast bilingual distributed representations without word alignments. In Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 748­756, 2015.
9

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
Thanh-Le Ha, Jan Niehues, and Alexander Waibel. Toward multilingual neural machine translation with universal encoder and decoder. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.04798, 2016.
Di He, Yingce Xia, Tao Qin, Liwei Wang, Nenghai Yu, Tieyan Liu, and Wei-Ying Ma. Dual learning for machine translation. In D. D. Lee, M. Sugiyama, U. V. Luxburg, I. Guyon, and R. Garnett (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 29, pp. 820­828. Curran Associates, Inc., 2016. URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper/ 6469-dual-learning-for-machine-translation.pdf.
Felix Hill, Kyunghyun Cho, and Anna Korhonen. Learning distributed representations of sentences from unlabelled data. TACL, 2017.
Melvin Johnson, Mike Schuster, Quoc Le, Maxim Krikun, Yonghui Wu, Zhifeng Chen, Nikhil Thorat, Fernand a ViA~ c gas, Martin Wattenberg, Greg Corrado, Macduff Hughes, and Jeffrey Dean. Google's multilingual neural machine translation system: Enabling zero-shot translation. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 5:339­351, 2017. ISSN 2307-387X. URL https://transacl.org/ojs/index.php/tacl/article/view/1081.
Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. In 3rd International Conference for Learning Representations, 2015.
Philipp Koehn and Rebecca Knowles. Six challenges for neural machine translation. In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Neural Machine Translation, pp. 28­39, Vancouver, August 2017. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/ W17-3204.
Angeliki Lazaridou, Georgiana Dinu, and Marco Baroni. Hubness and pollution: Delving into cross-space mapping for zero-shot learning. In Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 270­280, Beijing, China, July 2015. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/ P15-1027.
Jason Lee, Kyunghyun Cho, and Thomas Hofmann. Fully character-level neural machine translation without explicit segmentation. TACL, 2017.
Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D. Manning. Bilingual word representations with monolingual quality in mind. In Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Vector Space Modeling for Natural Language Processing, pp. 151­159, Denver, Colorado, June 2015a. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W15-1521.
Thang Luong, Hieu Pham, and Christopher D. Manning. Effective approaches to attention-based neural machine translation. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 1412­1421, Lisbon, Portugal, September 2015b. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://aclweb.org/anthology/D15-1166.
Antonio Valerio Miceli Barone. Towards cross-lingual distributed representations without parallel text trained with adversarial autoencoders. In Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on Representation Learning for NLP, pp. 121­126, Berlin, Germany, August 2016. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://anthology.aclweb.org/W16-1614.
Tomas Mikolov, Quoc V Le, and Ilya Sutskever. Exploiting similarities among languages for machine translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1309.4168, 2013a.
Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg S Corrado, and Jeff Dean. Distributed representations of words and phrases and their compositionality. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 26, pp. 3111­3119. Curran Associates, Inc., 2013b.
Sujith Ravi and Kevin Knight. Deciphering foreign language. In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pp. 12­21, Portland, Oregon, USA, June 2011. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1002.
10

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
Rico Sennrich, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra Birch. Improving neural machine translation models with monolingual data. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 86­96, Berlin, Germany, August 2016a. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/ P16-1009.
Rico Sennrich, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra Birch. Neural machine translation of rare words with subword units. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 1715­1725, Berlin, Germany, August 2016b. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/ P16-1162.
Samuel L Smith, David HP Turban, Steven Hamblin, and Nils Y Hammerla. Offline bilingual word vectors, orthogonal transformations and the inverted softmax. In 5th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2017), 2017.
Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V Le. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks. In Z. Ghahramani, M. Welling, C. Cortes, N. D. Lawrence, and K. Q. Weinberger (eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 27, pp. 3104­3112. Curran Associates, Inc., 2014. URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper/ 5346-sequence-to-sequence-learning-with-neural-networks.pdf.
Pascal Vincent, Hugo Larochelle, Isabelle Lajoie, Yoshua Bengio, and Pierre-Antoine Manzagol. Stacked denoising autoencoders: Learning useful representations in a deep network with a local denoising criterion. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 11(Dec):3371­3408, 2010.
Yonghui Wu, Mike Schuster, Zhifeng Chen, Quoc V. Le, Mohammad Norouzi, Wolfgang Macherey, Maxim Krikun, Yuan Cao, Qin Gao, Klaus Macherey, Jeff Klingner, Apurva Shah, Melvin Johnson, Xiaobing Liu, Lukasz Kaiser, Stephan Gouws, Yoshikiyo Kato, Taku Kudo, Hideto Kazawa, Keith Stevens, George Kurian, Nishant Patil, Wei Wang, Cliff Young, Jason Smith, Jason Riesa, Alex Rudnick, Oriol Vinyals, Greg Corrado, Macduff Hughes, and Jeffrey Dean. Google's neural machine translation system: Bridging the gap between human and machine translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.08144, 2016. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.08144.
Meng Zhang, Yang Liu, Huanbo Luan, and Maosong Sun. Adversarial training for unsupervised bilingual lexicon induction. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 1959­1970, Vancouver, Canada, July 2017. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://aclweb.org/ anthology/P17-1179.
11

