CERTIFIED DEFENSES AGAINST ADVERSARIAL EXAMPLES
Anonymous authors Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
While neural networks have achieved high accuracy on standard image classification benchmarks, their accuracy drops to nearly zero in the presence of small adversarial perturbations to test inputs. Defenses based on regularization and adversarial training have been proposed, but often followed by new, stronger attacks that defeat these defenses. Can we somehow end this arms race? In this work, we study this problem for neural networks with one hidden layer. We first propose a method based on a semidefinite relaxation that outputs a certificate that for a given network and test input, no attack can force the error to exceed a certain value. Second, as this certificate is differentiable, we jointly optimize it with the network parameters, providing an adaptive regularizer that encourages robustness against all attacks. On MNIST, our approach produces a network and a certificate that no attack that perturbs each pixel by at most = 0.1 can cause more than 35% test error.
1 INTRODUCTION
Despite the impressive (and sometimes even superhuman) accuracies of machine learning on diverse tasks such as object recognition (He et al., 2015), speech recognition (Xiong et al., 2016), and playing Go (Silver et al., 2016), classifiers still fail catastrophically in the presence of small imperceptible but adversarial perturbations (Szegedy et al., 2014; Goodfellow et al., 2015; Kurakin et al., 2016). In addition to being an intriguing phenonemon, the existence of such "adversarial examples" exposes a serious vulnerability in current ML systems (Evtimov et al., 2017; Sharif et al., 2016; Carlini et al., 2016). While formally defining an "imperceptible" perturbation is difficult, a commonlyused proxy is perturbations that are bounded in -norm (Goodfellow et al., 2015; Madry et al., 2017; Tramèr et al., 2017); we focus on this attack model in the present paper, as even for this proxy it is not known how to construct high-performing image classifiers that are robust to perturbations.
While a proposed defense (classifier) is often empirically shown to be successful against the set of attacks known at the time, new stronger attacks are subsequently discovered that render the defense useless. For example, defensive distillation (Papernot et al., 2016c) and adversarial training against the Fast Gradient Sign Method (Goodfellow et al., 2015) were two defenses that were later shown to be ineffective against stronger attacks (Carlini & Wagner, 2016; Tramèr et al., 2017). In order to break this arms race between attackers and defenders, we need to come up with defenses that are successful against all attacks within a certain class.
However, even computing the worst-case error for a given network against all adversarial perturbations in an -ball is computationally intractable. One common approximation is to replace the worst-case loss with the loss from a given heuristic attack strategy, such as the Fast Gradient Sign Method (Goodfellow et al., 2015) or more powerful iterative methods (Carlini & Wagner, 2017a; Madry et al., 2017). Adversarial training minimizes the loss with respect to these heuristics. However, this essentially minimizes a lower bound on the worst-case loss, which is problematic since points where the bound is loose have disproportionately lower objective values, which could lure and mislead an optimizer. Indeed, while adversarial training often provides robustness against a specific attack, it often fails to generalize to new attacks, as described above. Another approach is to compute the worst-case perturbation exactly using discrete optimization (Katz et al., 2017a; Carlini et al., 2017). Currently, these approaches can take up to several hours or longer to compute the loss for a single example even for small networks with a few hundred hidden units. Training a network would require performing this computation in the inner loop, which is infeasible.
In this paper, we introduce an approach that avoids both the inaccuracy of lower bounds and the intractability of exact computation, by computing an upper bound on the worst-case loss for neural networks with one hidden layer, based on a semidefinite relaxation that can be computed efficiently. This upper bound serves as a certificate of robustness against all attacks for a given network and input. Minimizing an upper bound is safer than minimizing a lower bound, because points where the bound is loose have disproportionately higher objective values, which the optimizer will tend
1

(a) (b)
Figure 1: Illustration of the margin function f (x) for a simple two-layer network. (a) Contours of f (x) in an  ball around x. Sharp curvature near x renders a linear approximation highly inaccurate, and f (Afgsm(x)) obtained by maximing this approximation is much smaller than f (Aopt(x)). (b) Vector field for f (x) with length of arrows proportional to f (x) 1. In our approach, we bound f (Aopt(x)) by bounding the maximum of f (x~) 1 over a neighborhood (green arrow). In general, this could be very different from f (x) 1 at just the point x (red arrow).

to avoid. Furthermore, our certificate of robustness, by virtue of being differentiable, is trainable--it can be optimized at training time jointly with the network, acting as a regularizer that encourages robustness against all  attacks.
In summary, we are the first to demonstrate a certifiable, trainable, and scalable method for defending against advesarial examples on two-layer networks. We train a network on MNIST whose test error on clean data is 4.2%, and which comes with a certificate that no attack can misclassify more than 35% of the test examples using  perturbations of size = 0.1; for comparison, the only other certified error bound we are aware of is 60% at = 0.05, and no network (certified or not) has error better than 11% at = 0.3.
Notation. For a vector z  Rn, we use zi to denote the ith coordinate of z. For a matrix Z  Rm×n, Zi denotes the ith row and Zij denotes the entry corresponding to the jth coordinate of Zi. For any activation function  : R  R (e.g., sigmoid, ReLU) and a vector z  Rn, (z) is a vector in Rn with (z)i = (zi) (non-linearity is applied elementwise). We use B (z) to denote the  ball of radius around z  Rd: B (z) = {z~ | |z~i - zi|  for i = 1, 2, . . . d}. Finally, we denote the vector of all zeros by 0 and the vector of all ones by 1.

2 SETUP

Score-based classifiers. Our goal is to learn a mapping C : X  Y, where X = Rd is the input space (e.g., images) and Y = {1, . . . , k} is the set of k class labels (e.g., object categories). Assume C is driven by a scoring function f i : X  R for all classes i  Y, where the classifier chooses the class with the highest score: C(x) = arg maxiY f i(x).
Also, define the pairwise margin f ij(x) d=ef f i(x) - f j(x) for every pair of classes (i, j). Note that the classifier outputs C(x) = i iff f ij(x) > 0 for all alternative classes j = i. Normally, a classifier is evaluated on the 0-1 loss
(x, y) = I[C(x) = y].

This paper focuses on linear classifiers and neural networks with one hidden layer. For linear classifiers, f i(x) d=ef

Wi x, where Wi is the ith row of the parameter matrix W  Rk×d. For neural networks with one hidden layer consisting of m hidden units, the scoring function is f i(x) = Vi (W x), where W  Rm×d and V  Rk×m are the

parameters of the first and second layer, respectively, and  is a non-linear activation function applied elementwise

(e.g., for ReLUs, (z) = max(z, 0)). We will assume below that the gradients of  are bounded:  (z)  [0, 1] for all

z



R;

this

is

true

for

ReLUs,

as

well

as

for

sigmoids

(with

the

stronger

bound



(z)



[0,

1 4

]).

Attack model. We are interested in classification in the presence of an attacker A : X  X that takes a (test) input x and returns a perturbation x~. We consider attackers A that can perturb each feature xi by at most  0; formally, A(x) is required to lie in the  ball B (x) d=ef {x~ | x~ - x   }, which is the standard constraint first proposed in Szegedy et al. (2014). Define the adversarial loss with respect to A as A(x, y) = I[C(A(x)) = y].

2

We assume the white-box setting, where the attacker A has full knowledge of C. The optimal (untargeted) attack
chooses the input that maximizes the pairwise margin of an incorrect class i over the correct class y: Aopt(x) = arg maxx~B (x) maxi f iy(x~). For a neural network, computing Aopt is a non-convex optimization problem; heuristics are typically employed, such as the Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM) (Goodfellow et al., 2015), which perturbs x
based on the gradient, or the Carlini-Wagner attack, which performs iterative optimization (Carlini & Wagner, 2017b).

3 CERTIFICATE ON THE ADVERSARIAL LOSS

For ease of exposition, we first consider binary classification with classes Y = {1, 2}; the multiclass extension is discussed at the end of Section 3.3. Without loss of generality, assume the correct label for x is y = 2. Simplifying notation, let f (x) = f 1(x) - f 2(x) be the margin of the incorrect class over the correct class. Then Aopt(x) = arg maxx~B (x) f (x~) is the optimal attack, which is successful if f (Aopt(x)) > 0. Since f (Aopt(x)) is intractable to compute, we will try to upper bound it via a tractable relaxation.
In the rest of this section, we first review a classic result in the simple case of linear networks where a tight upper bound is based on the 1-norm of the weights (Section 3.1). We then extend this to general classifiers, in which f (Aopt(x)) can be upper bounded using the maximum 1-norm of the gradient at any point x~  B (x) (Section 3.2). For twolayer networks, this quantity is upper bounded by the optimal value fQP(x) of a non-convex quadratic program (QP) (Section 3.3), which in turn is upper bounded by the optimal value fSDP(x) of a semidefinite program (SDP). The SDP is convex and can be computed exactly (which is important for obtainining actual certificates). To summarize, we have the following chain of inequalities:

(3.2)

(3.3)

(3.3)

f (A(x))  f (Aopt(x))  f (x) + max f (x~) 1  fQP(x)  fSDP(x),

x~B (x)

(1)

which implies that the adversarial loss A(x) = I[f (A(x)) > 0] with respect to any attacker A is upper bounded by I[fSDP(x) > 0]. Note that for certain non-linearities such as ReLUs, f (x~) does not exist everywhere, but our
analysis below holds as long as f is differentiable almost-everywhere.

3.1 LINEAR CLASSIFIERS

For (binary) linear classifiers, we have f (x) = (W1 - W2) x, where W1, W2  Rd are the weight vectors for the two classes. For any input x~  B (x), using Hölder's inequality with x - x~   , we have:

f (x~) = f (x) + (W1 - W2) (x~ - x)  f (x) + W1 - W2 1.

(2)

Note that this bound is tight, obtained by taking Aopt(x)i = xi + sign(W1i - W2i).

3.2 GENERAL CLASSIFIERS

For more general classifiers, we cannot compute f (Aopt(x)) exactly, but motivated by the above, we can use the gradient to obtain a linear approximation g:

f (x~)  g(x~) d=ef f (x) + f (x) x~ - x  f (x) + f (x) 1.

(3)

Using this linear approximation to generate A(x) corresponds exactly to the Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM) (Goodfellow et al., 2015). However, f is only close to g when x~ is very close to x, and people have observed the gradient masking phenomenon (Tramèr et al., 2017; Papernot et al., 2016b) in several proposed defenses that train against approximations like g, such as saturating networks (Nayebi & Ganguli, 2017), distillation (Papernot et al., 2016c), and adversarial training (Goodfellow et al., 2015). Specifically, defenses that try to minimize f (x) 1 locally at the training points result in loss surfaces that exhibit sharp curvature near those points, essentially rendering the first-order approximation g(x~) meaningless. Some attacks (Carlini & Wagner, 2016; Tramèr et al., 2017) evade these defenses and witness a large f (Aopt(x)). Figure 1a provides an illustration for a simple network.

3

We propose an alternative approach: use integration to obtain an exact expression for f (x~) in terms of the gradients along the line between x and x~:

1
f (x~) = f (x) + f tx~ + (1 - t)x
0
 f (x) + max f (x~) 1,
x~B (x)

x~ - x dt

(4)

where the inequality follows from the fact that tx~ + (1 - t)x  B (x) for all t  [0, 1]. The key difference between (4) and (3) is that we consider the gradients over the entire ball B (x) rather than only at x (Figure 1b). However, computing the RHS of (4) is intractable in general. For two-layer neural networks, this optimization has additional structure which we will exploit in the next section.

3.3 TWO-LAYER NEURAL NETWORKS

We now unpack the upper bound (4) for two-layer neural networks. Recall from Section 2 that f (x) = f 1(x) -
f 2(x) = v (W x), where v d=ef V1 - V2  Rm is the difference in second-layer weights for the two classes. Let us try to bound the norm of the gradient f (x~) 1 for x~  B (x). If we apply the chain rule, we see that the only dependence on x~ is  (W x~), the activation derivatives. We now leverage our assumption that  (z)  [0, 1]m for all vectors z  Rm, so that we can optimize over possible activation derivatives s  [0, 1]m directly independent of x (note that there is potential looseness because not all such s need to be obtainable via some x~  B (x)). We thus have:

f (x~) 1 (=i) W diag(v) (W x~) 1
(ii)
 max W diag(v)s 1
s[0,1]m

(i=ii) max t W diag(v)s,
s[0,1]m ,t[-1,1]d

(5)

where (i) follows from the chain rule, (ii) uses the fact that  has bounded derivatives  (z)  [0, 1], and (iii) follows

from the identity

z

1 = maxt[-1,1]m t

z.

(Note

that

for

sigmoid

networks,

where



(z)



[0,

1 4

],

we

can

strengthen

the

above

bound

by

a

corresponding

factor

of

1 4

.)

By

substituting

the

result

(5)

into

(4),

we

obtain

an

upper

bound

on

the adversarial loss, which we call fQP:

f (Aopt(x))  f (x) + max f (x~) 1
x~B (x)

 f (x) +

max

t W diag(v)s d=ef fQP(x).

s[0,1]m ,t[-1,1]d

(6)

Unfortunately, (6) still involves a non-convex optimization problem (since W diag(v) is not necessarily negative semidefinite). In fact, it is similar to the NP-hard MAXCUT problem, which requires maximizing x Lx over x  [-1, 1]d for a graph with Laplacian matrix L. While MAXCUT is NP-hard, it can be efficiently approximated, as
shown by the celebrated semidefinite programming relaxation for MAXCUT in Goemans & Williamson (1995). We
follow a similar approach here to obtain an upper bound on fQP(x).

First, to make our variables lie in [-1, 1]m instead of [0, 1]m, we reparametrize s to produce:

1 max t W diag(v)(1 + s). s[-1,1]m,t[-1,1]d 2

(7)

Next pack the variables into a vector y  Rm+d+1 and the parameters into a matrix M :

y d=ef

1 t s

 M (v, W ) d=ef 

0 0

0 1 W diag(v)  0 W diag(v)  .

diag(v) W 1 diag(v) W

0

In terms of these new objects, our objective takes the form:

11

max y M (v, W )y = max

M (v, W ), yy

4y[-1,1](m+d+1)

4y[-1,1](m+d+1)

.

(8) (9)

4

Note that every valid vector y  [-1, +1]m+d+1 satisfies the constraints yy

0 and (yy )jj = 1. Defining

P = yy , we obtain the following convex semidefinite relaxation of our problem:

fQP(x)  fSDP(x) d=ef f (x) + 4 P

max
0,diag(P )1

M (v, W ), P

.

(10)

Note that the optimization of the semidefinite program depends only on the weights v and W and does not depend on the inputs x, so it only needs to be computed once for a model (V, W ). Semidefinite programs can be solved with off-the-shelf optimizers, although these optimizers are somewhat slow on large instances. In Section 4 we propose a fast stochastic method for training, which only requires computing the top eigenvalue of a matrix.

Generalization to multiple classes. The preceding arguments all generalize to the pairwise margins f ij to give

f ij (A(x))  fSiDj P(x) d=ef f ij (x) + 4 P

max
0,diag(P )1

M ij(V, W ), P

, where

(11)

M ij is defined as in (9) with v = Vi - Vj. The adversarial loss of any attacker, A(x, y) = I[maxi=y f iy(A(x)) > 0] can be bounded using the upper bounds fSiDy P(x)  f iy(A(x)) for i = y. In particular,

A(x) = 0 if maxi=y fSiDy P(x) < 0.

(12)

4 TRAINING THE CERTIFICATE

In the previous section, we proposed an upper bound (12) on the loss A(x) of any attack A, based on the bound (11). Normal training with some classification loss cls(V, W ; xn, yn) like hinge loss or cross-entropy will encourage the pairwise margin f ij(x) to be large in magnitude, but won't necessarily cause the second term in (11) involving M ij
to be small. A natural strategy is thus to use the following regularized objective given training examples (xn, yn):

(W , V ) = arg min cls(V, W ; xn, yn) + ij max

M ij(V, W ), P ,

W,V n

P 0,diag(P )1 i=j

(13)

where ij > 0 are the regularization hyperparameters. However, computing the gradients of the above objective involves finding the optimal solution of a semidefinite program, which could be slow.

Duality to the rescue. Our computational burden is lifted by the beautiful theory of duality, which provides the following equivalence between the primal maximization problem over P , and a dual minimization problem over new variables c (see Section A for details):

P

max M ij(V, W ), P
0,diag(P )1

=

min (d
cRd+m+1

+

m

+

1)m+ax

M ij(V, W ) - diag(c)

+1

max(c, 0).

(14)

Here m+ax(B) is the maximum eigenvalue of B, or 0 if all eigenvalues are negative. This dual formulation allows us to introduce additional dual variables cij  Rm+d+1 that are optimized at the same time as the parameters V and W , resulting in an objective that can be trained efficiently using stochastic gradient methods.

The final objective. Using (14), we end up optimizing the following objective given training examples (xn, yn):

(W , V , c ) = arg min
W,V,c n

cls(V, W ; xn, yn) + ij · (d + m + 1)m+ax(M ij(V, W ) - diag(cij)) + 1 max(cij, 0) .
i=j
(15)

The objective in (15) can be optimized efficiently. The most expensive operation is +max, which requires computing the maximum eigenvector of the matrix M ij - diag(cij) in order to take gradients. This can be done efficiently using standard implementations of iterative methods like Lanczos. Further implementation details (including tuning of ij) are presented in Section 6.3.

Dual certificate of robustness. The dual formulation is also useful because any value of the dual is an upper bound on the optimal value of the primal. Specifically, if (W [T ], V [T ], c[T ]) are the parameters at iteration T of training, then

f ij(A(x))  f (x) + 4

(d + m + 1)+max M ij(v[T ], W [T ]) - diag(c[T ]ij)

+1

max(c[T ]ij, 0) ,

(16)

for any attack A. As we train the network, we obtain a quick upper bound on the worst-case adversarial loss directly

from the regularization loss, without having to optimize a semidefinite program each time.

5

5 OTHER UPPER BOUNDS

In Section 3, we described a function fSiDj P that yields an efficient upper bound on the adversarial loss, which we obtained using convex relaxations. One could consider some other simple ways to obtain valid upper bounds on the loss; we describe here two common ones based on spectral norm and Frobenius norm.

Spectral bound: Note that v ((W x~)-(W x))  v 2 (W x~)-(W x) 2by Cauchy-Schwarz. Moreover, since

 is contractive, (W x~) - (W x) 2  W (x~ - x) 2  W 2 x~ - x 2  d W 2, where W 2 is the spectral

norm (maximum singular value) of W . This yields the following upper bound that we denote by fspectral:

f ij (A(x))  fsipjectral(x) d=ef f ij (x) +

 d

W

2

Vi - Vj

2.

(17)

This measure of vulnerability to adversarial examples based on the spectral norms of the weights of each layer is

considered in Szegedy et al. (2014) and Cisse et al. (2017).

Frobenius bound: For ease in training, often the Frobenius norm is regularized (weight decay) instead of the spectral

norm. Since

W

F

W

2,

we

get

a

corresponding

upper

bound

that 

we

call

ffrobenius,

f ij (A(x))  ffirjobenius(x) = f ij (x) + d W F Vi - Vj 2.

(18)

In Section 6, we empirically compare our proposed bound using fSiDj P to these two upper bounds.

6 EXPERIMENTS

We evaluated our method on the MNIST dataset of handwritten digits, where the task is to classify images into one of ten classes (the digits 0 through 9). Our results can be summarized as follows: First, in Section 6.1, we show that our certificates of robustness are tighter than those based on simpler methods such as Frobenius and spectral bounds (described in Section 5), but our bounds are still too high to be meaningful for general networks. Then in Section 6.2, we show that by training on the certificates, we obtain networks with much better bounds and hence meaningful robustness. This reflects an important point: while accurately analyzing the robustness of an arbitrary network is hard, training the certificate jointly leads to a network that is robust and certifiably so. In Section 6.3, we present implementation details, design choices, and empirical observations that we made while implementing our method.
Networks. In this work, we focus on two layer networks. In all our experiments, we used neural networks with m = 500 hidden units, and performed optimization using TensorFlow's implementation of Adam (Kingma & Ba, 2014); we considered networks with more hidden units, but these did not substantially improve accuracy. We experimented with both the multiclass hinge loss and cross-entropy. All hyperparameters (including the choice of loss function) were tuned based on the error achieved by the Projected Gradient Descent (PGD) attack (Madry et al., 2017) at = 0.1; we report the specific hyperparameter settings below. We considered the following different training objectives providing five different networks:
1. Normal training (NT-NN). Cross-entropy loss and no explicit regularization.
2. Frobenius norm regularization (Fro-NN). Hinge loss and a regularizer ( W F + v 2) with  = 0.08.
3. Spectral norm regularization (Spe-NN). Hinge loss and a regularizer ( W 2 + v 2) with  = 0.09.
4. Adversarial training (AT-NN). We used cross-entropy and used the adversarial loss against PGD as a regularizer, with the regularization parameter set to 0.5. We found that this regularized loss works better than optimizing only the adversarial loss, which is the defense proposed in Madry et al. (2017). We set the step size of the PGD adversary to 0.1, number of iterations to 40, and perturbation size to 0.3.
5. Proposed training objective (SDP-NN). Dual SDP objective described in Equation 15 of Section 4. Implementation details and hyperparameter values are detailed in Section 6.3.
Evaluating upper bounds. Below we will consider various upper bounds on the adversarial loss Aopt (based on our method, as well as the Frobenius and spectral bounds described in Section 5). Ideally we would compare these to the ground-truth adversarial loss ,Aopt but computing this exactly is difficult. Therefore, we compare upper bounds on the adversarial loss with a lower bound on Aopt instead. The loss of any attack provides a valid lower bound and we consider the strong Projected Gradient Descent (PGD) attack run against the cross-entropy loss, starting from a random point in B (x), with 5 random restarts. We observed that PGD against hinge loss did not work well, so we used cross-entropy even for attacking networks trained with the hinge loss.

6

(a) NT-NN

(b) Fro-NN

(c) Spe-NN

(d) AT-NN

(e) SDP-NN

Figure 2: Plots for comparing the different upper bounds on adversarial loss for different networks on MNIST.

6.1 QUALITY OF THE UPPER BOUND
For each of the five networks described above, we computed upper bounds on the 0/1 loss based on our certificate (which we refer to as the "SDP bound" in this section), as well as the Frobenius and spectral bounds described in Section 5. While Section 4 provides a procedure for efficiently obtaining an SDP bound as a result of training, for networks not trained with our method we need to solve an SDP at the end of training to obtain certificates. Fortunately, this only needs to be done once for every pair of classes. In our experiments, we use the modeling toolbox YALMIP (Löfberg, 2004) with Sedumi (Sturm, 1999) as a backend to solve the SDPs, using the dual form (14); this took roughly 10 minutes per SDP (around 8 hours in total for a given model).
In Figure 2, we display average values of the different upper bounds over the 10, 000 test examples, as well as the corresponding lower bound from PGD. We find that our bound is tighter than the Frobenius and spectral bounds for all the networks considered, but its tightness relative to the PGD lower bound varies across the networks. For instance, our bound is relatively tight on Fro-NN, but unfortunately Fro-NN is not very robust against adversarial examples (the PGD attack exhibits large loss). In contrast, the adversarially trained network AT-NN does appear to be robust to attacks, but our certificate, despite being much tigher than the Frobenius and spectral bounds, is far away from the PGD lower bound. The only network that is both robust and has relatively tight upper bounds is SDP-NN, which was explicitly trained to be both robust and certifiable as described in Section 4; we examine this network and the effects of training in more detail in the next subsection.
6.2 EVALUATING PROPOSED TRAINING OBJECTIVE.
In the previous section, we saw that the SDP bound, while being tighter than simpler upper bounds, could still be quite loose on arbitrary networks. However, optimizing against the SDP certificate seemed to make the certificate tighter. In this section, we explore the effect of different optimization objectives in more detail. First, we plot on a single axis the best upper bound (i.e., the SDP bound) and the lower bound (from PGD) on the adversarial loss obtained with each of the five training objectives discussed above. This is given in Figure 3a.
7

(a) (b)
Figure 3: (a) Plot to compare robustness of different networks on MNIST. The plot shows both an upper bound (SDP) and lower bound (PGD) on the adversarial loss for the different networks. (b) Plot showing the loss obtained by SDP-NN against 3 different attacks: Projected Gradient Descent, Carlini-Wagner, and Fast Gradient Sign Method.
Neither spectral nor Frobenius norm regularization seems to be helpful for encouraging adversarial robustness -- the actual performance of those networks against the PGD attack is worse than the upper bound for SDP-NN against all attacks. This shows that the SDP certificate actually provides a useful training objective for encouraging robustness.
Separately, we can ask whether SDP-NN is robust to actual attacks. We explore the robustness of our network in Figure 3b, where we plot the performance of SDP-NN against 3 attacks--the PGD attack from before, the CarliniWagner attack (another strong attack), and the weaker Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM) baseline. We see substantial robustness against all 3 attacks, even though our method was not explicitly trained with any of them in mind.
Next, we compare to other bounds reported in the literature. A rough ceiling is given by the network of Madry et al. (2017), which is a relatively large four-layer convolutional network adversarially trained against PGD. While this network has no accompanying certificate of robustness, it was evaluated against a number of attack strategies and had worst-case error 11% at = 0.3. Another set of numbers comes from Carlini et al. (2017), who use formal verification methods to compute Aopt exactly on 10 input examples for a small (72-node) variant of the Madry et al. network. The authors reported to us that this network misclassifies 6 out of 10 examples at = 0.05 (we note that 4 out of 10 of these were misclassified to start with, but 3 of the 4 can also be flipped to a different wrong class with some < 0.07).
At the value = 0.1 for which it was tuned, SDP-NN has error 16% against the PGD attack, and an upper bound of 35% error against any attack. This is substantially better than the small 72-node network, but also much worse than the full Madry et al. network. How much of the latter looseness comes from conservatism in our method, versus the fact that our network has only two layers? We can get some idea by considering the AT-NN network, which was trained similarly to Madry et al., but uses the same architecture as SDP-NN. From Figure 3a, we see that the error of SDP-NN against PGD (16%) is not much worse than that of AT-NN (11%), even though AT-NN was explicitly trained against the PGD attack. This suggests that most of the gap comes from the smaller network depth, rather than from conservatism in the SDP bound. We are currently in the process of extending our approach to deeper networks, and optimistic about obtaining improved bounds with such networks.
6.3 IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
We implemented our training objective in TensorFlow, and implemented m+ax as a custom operator using SciPy's implementation of the Lanczos algorithm for fast top eigenvector computation; occasionally Lanczos fails to converge due to a small eigen-gap, in which case we back off to a full SVD. We used hinge loss as the classification loss, and decayed the learning rate in steps from 10-3 to 10-5, decreasing by a factor of 10 every 30 epochs. Each gradient step involves computing top eigenvectors for 45 different matrices, one for each pair of classes (i, j). In order to speed up
8

(a) (b)
Figure 4: (a) Weighted and unweighted regularization schemes. The network produced by weighting has a better certificate as well as smaller loss against the PGD attack. (b) The dual certificate of robustness (SDP dual), obtained automatically during training, is almost as good as the certificate produced by exactly solving the SDP.
computation, for each update, we randomly pick it and only compute gradients for pairs (it, j), j = it, requiring only 9 top eigenvector computations in each step.
For the regularization parameters ij, the simplest idea is to set them all equal to the same value; this leads to the unweighted regularization scheme where ij =  for all pairs (i, j). We tuned  to 0.05, which led to reasonably good bounds. However, we observed that certain pairs of classes tended to have larger margins f ij(x) than other classes, which meant that certain label pairs appeared in the maximum of (12) much more often. That led us to consider a weighted regularization scheme with ij = wij, where wij is the fraction of training points for which the the label is i (or j) appears as the maximizing term in (12). We updated the values of these weights every 20 epochs. Figure 4a compares the PGD lower bound and SDP upper bound for the unweighted and weighted networks. We see that the weighted network is better than the unweighted network for both the lower and upper bounds. Finally, we saw in Equation 16 of Section 4 that the dual variables cij provide a quick-to-compute certificate of robustness. Figure 4b shows that the certificates provided by these dual variables are very close to what we would obtain by fully optimizing the semidefinite programs. These dual certificates made it easy to track robustness across epochs of training and to tune hyperparameters.
7 DISCUSSION
In this work, we proposed a method for producing certificates of robustness for neural networks, and for training against these certificates to obtain networks that are provably robust against adversarial examples.
Related work. As far as we are aware, the only other work that provides certificates of robustness for neural networks is Katz et al. (2017a) (and the follow-up Carlini et al. (2017)). That work uses SMT solvers­a tool from the formal verification literature­to analyze neural networks. The SMT solver can answer the binary question "Is there an adversarial example within distance of the input x?", and is correct whenever it terminates. The main drawback of SMT and similar formal verification methods is that they are slow--they have worst-case exponential-time scaling in the size of the network. Moreover, to use them during training would require a separate search for every gradient step. We note that Huang et al. (2017) also use SMT solvers and are able to analyze state-of-the-art neural networks on MNIST, but they make various approximations such that their numbers are not true upper bounds.
Madry et al. (2017) perform adversarial training against PGD on the MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets, obtaining networks that they suggest are "secure against first-order adversaries". However, this is based on an empirical observation that PGD is nearly-optimal among gradient-based attacks, and does not correspond to any formal robustness guarantee.
Finally, the notion of a certificate appears in the theory of convex optimization, but means something different in that context; specifically, it corresponds to a proof that a point is near the optimum of a convex function, where here our certificates provide upper bounds on non-convex functions. Additionally, while robust optimization (Bertsimas et al.,
9

2011) provides a tool for optimizing objectives with robustness constraints, applying it directly would involve the same intractable optimization for Aopt that we deal with here.
Other approaches to verification. While they have not been explored in the context of neural networks, there are approaches in the control theory literature for verifying robustness of dynamical systems, based on Lyapunov functions (Lyapunov, 1892; 1992). We can think of the activations in a neural network as the evolution of a time-varying dynamical system, and attempt to prove stability around a trajectory of this system (Tedrake et al., 2010; Tobenkin et al., 2011). Such methods typically use sum-of-squares verification (Papachristodoulou & Prajna, 2002; 2005; Parrilo, 2003) and are restricted to relatively low-dimensional dynamical systems, but could plausibly scale to larger settings. Another approach is to construct families of networks that are provably robust a priori, which would remove the need to verify robustness of the learned model; to our knowledge this has not been done for any expressive model families.
Adversarial examples and secure ML. There has been a great deal of recent work on the security of ML systems; we provide only a sampling here, and refer the reader to Barreno et al. (2010), Biggio et al. (2014a), Papernot et al. (2016b), and Gardiner & Nagaraja (2016) for some recent surveys.
Adversarial examples for neural networks were first discovered by Szegedy et al. (2014), and since then a number of attacks and defenses have been proposed. We have already discussed gradient-based methods as well as defenses based on adversarial training. There are also other attacks based on, e.g., saliency maps (Papernot et al., 2016a), KL divergence (Miyato et al., 2015), and elastic net optimization (Chen et al., 2017); many of these attacks are collated in the cleverhans repository (Goodfellow et al., 2016). On the defense side, rather than making networks robust to adversarial examples, some work has focused on simply detecting adversarial examples. However, Carlini & Wagner (2017a) recently showed that essentially all known detection methods can be subverted by strong attacks.
As explained in Barreno et al. (2010), there are a number of different attack models beyond the test-time attacks considered here, based on different attacker goals and capabilities. For instance, one can consider data poisoning attacks, where an attacker modifies the training set in an effort to affect test-time performance. Newsome et al. (2006), Laskov & Srndic` (2014), and Biggio et al. (2014b) have demonstrated poisoning attacks against real-world systems.
Other types of certificates. There are a number of other settings where one might desire certificates of performance for machine learning systems. This includes verifying safety properties of air traffic control systems (Katz et al., 2017a;b) and self-driving cars (O'Kelly et al., 2016; 2017), as well as security applications such as robustness to training time attacks (Steinhardt et al., 2017). More broadly, certificates of performance are likely necessary for deploying machine learning systems in critical infrastructure such as internet packet routing (Winstein & Balakrishnan, 2013; Sivaraman et al., 2014). In robotics, certificates of stability are routinely used both for safety verification (Lygeros et al., 1999; Mitchell et al., 2005) and controller synthesis (Bas¸ar & Bernhard, 2008; Tedrake et al., 2010).
In traditional verification work, Rice's theorem (Rice, 1953) is a strong impossibility result essentially stating that most properties of most programs are undecidable. Similarly, we should expect that verifying robustness for arbitrary neural networks is hard. However, the results in this work suggest that it is possible to learn neural networks that are amenable to verification, in the same way that it is possible to write programs that can be formally verified. Optimistically, given expressive enough certification methods and model families, as well as strong enough specifications of robustness, one could even hope to train vector representations of natural images with strong robustness properties, thus finally closing the chapter on adversarial vulnerabilities in the visual domain.
REFERENCES
M. Barreno, B. Nelson, A. D. Joseph, and J. D. Tygar. The security of machine learning. Machine Learning, 81(2): 121­148, 2010.
T. Bas¸ar and P. Bernhard. H-infinity optimal control and related minimax design problems: a dynamic game approach. Springer Science & Business Media, 2008.
D. Bertsimas, D. B. Brown, and C. Caramanis. Theory and applications of robust optimization. SIAM review, 53(3): 464­501, 2011.
B. Biggio, G. Fumera, and F. Roli. Security evaluation of pattern classifiers under attack. Knowledge and Data Engineering, IEEE Transactions on, 26(4):984­996, 2014a.
10

B. Biggio, K. Rieck, D. Ariu, C. Wressnegger, I. Corona, G. Giacinto, and F. Roli. Poisoning behavioral malware clustering. In Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Security (AISec), 2014b.
N. Carlini and D. Wagner. Defensive distillation is not robust to adversarial examples. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.04311, 2016.
N. Carlini and D. Wagner. Adversarial examples are not easily detected: Bypassing ten detection methods. arXiv, 2017a.
N. Carlini and D. Wagner. Towards evaluating the robustness of neural networks. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pp. 39­57, 2017b.
N. Carlini, P. Mishra, T. Vaidya, Y. Zhang, M. Sherr, C. Shields, D. Wagner, and W. Zhou. Hidden voice commands. In USENIX Security, 2016.
N. Carlini, G. Katz, C. Barrett, and D. L. Dill. Ground-truth adversarial examples. arXiv, 2017.
P. Chen, Y. Sharma, H. Zhang, J. Yi, and C. Hsieh. EAD: Elastic-net attacks to deep neural networks via adversarial examples. arXiv, 2017.
M. Cisse, P. Bojanowski, E. Grave, Y. Dauphin, and N. Usunier. Parseval networks: Improving robustness to adversarial examples. In International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), pp. 854­863, 2017.
I. Evtimov, K. Eykholt, E. Fernandes, T. Kohno, B. Li, A. Prakash, A. Rahmati, and D. Song. Robust physical-world attacks on machine learning models. arXiv, 2017.
J. Gardiner and S. Nagaraja. On the security of machine learning in malware c&c detection: A survey. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 49(3), 2016.
M. Goemans and D. Williamson. Improved approximation algorithms for maximum cut and satisfiability problems using semidefinite programming. Journal of the ACM (JACM), 42(6):1115­1145, 1995.
I. Goodfellow, N. Papernot, and P. McDaniel. cleverhans v2.0.0: an adversarial machine learning library. arXiv, 2016.
I. J. Goodfellow, J. Shlens, and C. Szegedy. Explaining and harnessing adversarial examples. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2015.
K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun. Delving deep into rectifiers: Surpassing human-level performance on imagenet classification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.01852, 2015.
X. Huang, M. Kwiatkowska, S. Wang, and M. Wu. Safety verification of deep neural networks. In Computer Aided Verification (CAV), pp. 3­29, 2017.
G. Katz, C. Barrett, D. Dill, K. Julian, and M. Kochenderfer. Reluplex: An efficient SMT solver for verifying deep neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01135, 2017a.
G. Katz, C. Barrett, D. L. Dill, K. Julian, and M. J. Kochenderfer. Towards proving the adversarial robustness of deep neural networks. arXiv, 2017b.
D. Kingma and J. Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
A. Kurakin, I. Goodfellow, and S. Bengio. Adversarial examples in the physical world. arXiv, 2016.
P. Laskov and N. Srndic`. Practical evasion of a learning-based classifier: A case study. In Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2014.
J. Löfberg. YALMIP: A toolbox for modeling and optimization in MATLAB. In CACSD, 2004.
A. M. Lyapunov. The general problem of the stability of motion (in Russian). PhD thesis, Kharkov Mathematical Society, 1892.
A. M. Lyapunov. The general problem of the stability of motion. International Journal of Control, 55(3):531­534, 1992.
11

J. Lygeros, C. Tomlin, and S. Sastry. Controllers for reachability specifications for hybrid systems. Automatica, 35 (3):349­370, 1999.
A. Madry, A. Makelov, L. Schmidt, D. Tsipras, and A. Vladu. Towards deep learning models resistant to adversarial attacks. arXiv, 2017.
I. M. Mitchell, A. M. Bayen, and C. J. Tomlin. A time-dependent Hamilton-Jacobi formulation of reachable sets for continuous dynamic games. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 50(7):947­957, 2005.
T. Miyato, S. Maeda, M. Koyama, K. Nakae, and S. Ishii. Distributional smoothing with virtual adversarial training. arXiv, 2015.
A. Nayebi and S. Ganguli. Biologically inspired protection of deep networks from adversarial attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.09202, 2017.
J. Newsome, B. Karp, and D. Song. Paragraph: Thwarting signature learning by training maliciously. In International Workshop on Recent Advances in Intrusion Detection, 2006.
M. O'Kelly, H. Abbas, S. Gao, S. Shiraishi, S. Kato, and R. Mangharam. APEX: Autonomous vehicle plan verification and execution. Technical report, University of Pennsylvania, 2016.
M. O'Kelly, H. Abbas, and R. Mangharam. Computer-aided design for safe autonomous vehicles. Technical report, University of Pennsylvania, 2017.
A. Papachristodoulou and S. Prajna. On the construction of lyapunov functions using the sum of squares decomposition. In IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, 2002.
A. Papachristodoulou and S. Prajna. Analysis of non-polynomial systems using the sum of squares decomposition. Positive polynomials in control, 2005.
N. Papernot, P. McDaniel, S. Jha, M. Fredrikson, Z. B. Celik, and A. Swami. The limitations of deep learning in adversarial settings. In Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), 2016 IEEE European Symposium on, pp. 372­387, 2016a.
N. Papernot, P. McDaniel, A. Sinha, and M. Wellman. Towards the science of security and privacy in machine learning. arXiv, 2016b.
N. Papernot, P. McDaniel, X. Wu, S. Jha, and A. Swami. Distillation as a defense to adversarial perturbations against deep neural networks. In Security and Privacy (SP), 2016 IEEE Symposium on, pp. 582­597, 2016c.
P. A. Parrilo. Semidefinite programming relaxations for semialgebraic problems. Mathematical programming, 96(2): 293­320, 2003.
H. G. Rice. Classes of recursively enumerable sets and their decision problems. Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 74(2):358­366, 1953.
M. Sharif, S. Bhagavatula, L. Bauer, and M. K. Reiter. Accessorize to a crime: Real and stealthy attacks on state-ofthe-art face recognition. In ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 1528­1540, 2016.
D. Silver, A. Huang, C. J. Maddison, A. Guez, L. Sifre, G. V. D. Driessche, J. Schrittwieser, I. Antonoglou, V. Panneershelvam, M. Lanctot, et al. Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search. Nature, 529 (7587):484­489, 2016.
A. Sivaraman, K. Winstein, P. Thaker, and H. Balakrishnan. An experimental study of the learnability of congestion control. In SIGCOMM, 2014.
J. Steinhardt, P. W. Koh, and P. Liang. Certified defenses for data poisoning attacks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2017.
J. F. Sturm. Using SeDuMi 1.02, a MATLAB toolbox for optimization over symmetric cones. Optimization Methods and Software, 11:625­653, 1999.
12

C. Szegedy, W. Zaremba, I. Sutskever, J. Bruna, D. Erhan, I. Goodfellow, and R. Fergus. Intriguing properties of neural networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2014.
R. Tedrake, I. R. Manchester, M. M. Tobenkin, and J. W. Roberts. LQR-trees: Feedback motion planning via sums of squares verification. International Journal of Robotics Research, 29:1038­1052, 2010.
M. M. Tobenkin, I. R. Manchester, and R. Tedrake. Invariant funnels around trajectories using sum-of-squares programming. IFAC Proceedings Volumes, 44, 2011.
F. Tramèr, A. Kurakin, N. Papernot, D. Boneh, and P. McDaniel. Ensemble adversarial training: Attacks and defenses. arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.07204, 2017.
K. Winstein and H. Balakrishnan. TCP ex machina: Computer-generated congestion control. In SIGCOMM, 2013.
W. Xiong, J. Droppo, X. Huang, F. Seide, M. Seltzer, A. Stolcke, D. Yu, and G. Zweig. Achieving human parity in conversational speech recognition. arXiv, 2016.

A DUALITY

In this section we justify the duality relation (14). Recall that the primal program is

maximize M, P subject to P 0, diag(P )  1.

(19)

Rather than taking the dual directly, we first add the redundant constraint tr(P )  d + m + 1 (it is redundant because the SDP is in d + m + 1 dimensions and diag(P )  1). This yields

maximize M, P subject to P 0, diag(P )  1, tr(P )  d + m + 1.

(20)

We now form the Lagrangian for the constraints diag(P )  1, leaving the other two constraints as-is. This yields the equivalent optimization problem

maximize min M, P + c (1 - diag(P ))
c0
subject to P 0, tr(P )  d + m + 1.

(21)

Now, we apply minimax duality to swap the order of min and max; the value of (21) is thus equal to

minimize max M, P + c (1 - diag(P ))
P 0, tr(P )d+m+1
subject to c  0.

(22)

The inner maximum can be simplified as

1 c + (d + m + 1) · max M - diag(c), P
P 0,tr(P )1

= 1 c + (d + m + 1)m+ax(M - diag(c)).

Therefore, (22) simplifies to

minimize 1 c + (d + m + 1)+max(M - diag(c)) subject to c  0.

(23) (24)

This is almost the form given in (14), except that c is constrained to be non-negative and we have 1 c instead of 1 max(c, 0). However, note that for the +max term, it is always better for c to be larger; therefore, replacing c with max(c, 0) means that the optimal value of c will always be non-negative, thus allowing us to drop the c  0 constraint
and optimize c in an unconstrained manner. This finally yields the claimed duality relation (14).

13

