Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
IDENTIFYING ANALOGIES ACROSS DOMAINS
Anonymous authors Paper under double-blind review
ABSTRACT
Identifying analogies across domains without supervision is a key task for artificial intelligence. Recent advances in cross domain image mapping have concentrated on translating images across domains. Although the progress made is impressive, the visual fidelity many times does not suffice for identifying the matching sample from the other domain. In this paper, we tackle this very task of finding exact analogies between datasets i.e. for every image from domain A find an analogous image in domain B. We present a matching-by-synthesis approach: AN-GAN, and show that it outperforms current techniques. We further show that the cross-domain mapping task can be broken into two parts: domain alignment and learning the mapping function. The tasks can be iteratively solved, and as the alignment is improved, the unsupervised translation function reaches quality comparable to full supervision.
1 INTRODUCTION
Humans are remarkable in their ability to enter an unseen domain and make analogies to the previously seen domain without prior supervision ("This dinosaur looks just like my dog Fluffy"). This ability is important for using previous knowledge in order to obtain strong priors on the new situation, which makes identifying analogies between multiple domains an important problem for Artificial Intelligence. Much of the recent success of AI has been in supervised problems, i.e., when explicit correspondences between the input and output were specified on a training set. Analogy identification is different in that no explicit example analogies are given in advance, as the new domain is unseen.
Recently several approaches were proposed for unsupervised mapping between domains. The approaches take as input sets of images from two different domains A and B without explicit correspondences between the images in each set, e.g. Domain A: a set of aerial photos and Domain B: a set of Google-Maps images. The methods learn a mapping function TAB that takes an image in one domain and maps it to its likely appearance in the other domain, e.g. map an aerial photo to a Google-Maps image. This is achieved by utilizing two constraints: (i) Distributional constraint: the distributions of mapped A domain images (TAB(x)) and images of the target domain B must be indistinguishable, and (ii) Cycle constraint: an image mapped to the other domain and back must be unchanged, i.e., TBA(TAB(x)) = x.
For the task of analogy identification, the match (if exists) of the samples in the first domain is found in the other domain. Although the two above constraints have been found effective for training a mapping function that is able to translate between the domains, the translated images are often not of high enough visual fidelity to be able to perform exact matching. We hypothesize that it is caused due to not having exemplar-based constraints but rather constraints on the distributions and the inversion property.
In this work we tackle the problem of analogy identification. We find that although current methods are not designed for this task, it is possible to add exemplar-based constraints in order to recover high performance in visual analogy identification. We show that our method is effective also when only some of the sample images in A and B have exact analogies whereas the rest do not have exact analogies in the sample sets. We also show that it is able to find correspondences between sets when no exact correspondences are available at all. In the latter case, since the method retrieves rather than maps examples, it naturally yields far better visual quality than the mapping function.
1

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 1: Mapping source to an image appearing to come from target domain is not the same as identifying the matching image. (a) The source image. (b) The mapped image obtained using CycleGAN. (c) The actual target image.
Using the domain alignment described above, it is now possible to perform a two step approach for training a domain mapping function, which is more accurate than the results provided by previous unsupervised mapping approaches:
1. Find the analogies between the A and B domain, using our method. 2. Once the domains are aligned, fit a translation function TAB between the domains ymi =
TAB(xi) using a fully supervised method. For the supervised network, larger architectures and more elaborate loss functions can be used.
Sec. 2 describes relevant prior work, Sec. 3 details distribution and exemplar based matching approaches and describes our method AN-GAN. The experimental protocol and the results are detailed in Sec. 4. We conclude in Sec. 5.
2 RELATED WORK
This paper aims to identify analogies between datasets without supervision. Analogy identification as formulated in this paper is highly related to image matching methods. As we perform matching by synthesis across domains, our method is related to unsupervised style-transfer and image-to-image mapping. In this section we give a brief overview of the most closely related works. Image Matching Image matching is a long-standing computer vision task. Many approaches have been proposed for image matching, most notably pixel- and feature-point based matching (e.g. SIFT (Lowe, 2004)). Recently supervised deep neural networks have been used for matching between datasets (Wang et al., 2014), and generic visual features for matching when no supervision is available (e.g. (Ganin & Lempitsky, 2015)). As our scenario is unsupervised, generic visual feature matching is of particular relevance. We show in our experiments however that as the domains are very different, standard visual features (multi-layer VGG-16 (Simonyan & Zisserman, 2015)) are not able to achieve good analogies between the domains. Style transfer Style transfer methods Gatys et al. (2016); Ulyanov et al. (2016); Johnson et al. (2016) typically receive as input a style image and a content image and create a new image that has the style of the first and the content of the second. Style is captured by local image statistics ("texture") and content is measured by the activations of a neural net classifier. The problem of image translation between domains differs since when mapping between domains, part of the content is replaced with new content that matches the target domain and not just the style. However, the distinction is not sharp, and many of the cross-domain mapping examples in the literature can almost be viewed as style transfers. For example, while a zebra is not a horse in another style, the horse to zebra mapping, performed by Zhu et al. (2017) seems to change horse skin to zebra skin. This is evident from the stripped Putin example obtained when mapping the image of shirtless Putin riding a horse. Generative Adversarial Networks GAN (Goodfellow et al., 2014) technology presents a major breakthrough in image synthesis (and other domains). The success of previous attempts to generate random images in a class of a given set of images, was limited to very specific domains such as texture synthesis. Therefore, it is not surprising that most of the image to image translation work
2

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

reported below employ GANs in order to produce realistically looking images. GAN (Goodfellow et al., 2014) methods train a generator network G that synthesizes samples from a target distribution, given noise vectors, by jointly training a second network D. The specific generative architecture we and others employ is based on the architecture of Radford et al. (2015). In image mapping, the created image is based on an input image and not on random noise (Kim et al., 2017; Zhu et al., 2017; Yi et al., 2017; Liu & Tuzel, 2016; Taigman et al., 2017; Isola et al., 2017).
Unsupervised Mapping Unsupervised mapping does not employ supervision apart from sets of sample images from the two domains. This was done very recently (Kim et al., 2017; Zhu et al., 2017; Yi et al., 2017) for image to image translation and slightly earlier for translating between natural languages (Xia et al., 2016). The above mapping methods however are focused on generating a mapped version of the sample in the other domain rather than retrieving the best matching sample in the new domain.
Weakly Supervised Mapping Taigman et al. (2017) match between the source domain and the target domain by incorporating a fixed pre-trained feature map f and requiring f -constancy, i.e, that the activations of f are the same for the input samples and for mapped samples. We do not use such assumptions in this work. We do use VGG-based perceptual losses but show that they are not invariant between the domains and are not able to achieve high-quality cross-domain retrieval on their own.
Supervised Mapping When provided with matching pairs of (input image, output image) the mapping can be trained directly. An example of such method that also uses GANs is Isola et al. (2017), where the discriminator D receives a pair of images where one image is the source image and the other is either the matching target image ("real" pair) or a generated image ("fake" pair); The link between the source and the target image is further strengthened by employing the U-net architecture of Ronneberger et al. (2015). We do not use supervision in this work, however by the successful completion of our algorithm, correspondences are generated between the domains, and supervised mapping methods can be used on the inferred matches. Recently, Chen & Koltun (2017) demonstrated improved mapping results, in the supervised settings, when employing the perceptual loss and without the use of GANs.

3 METHOD

In this section we detail our method for analogy identification. We are given two sets of images in domains A and B respectively. The set of images in domain A are denoted xi where i  I and the set image in domain B are denoted yj where j  J. Let mi denote the index of the B domain image ymi that is analogous to xi. Our goal is to find the matching indexes mi for i  I in order to be able to match every A domain image xi with a B domain image ymi , if such a match exists.
We present an iterative approach for finding matches between two domains. Our approach maps images from the source domain to the target domain, and searches for matches in the target domain.

3.1 DISTRIBUTION-BASED MAPPING

A GAN-based distribution approach has recently emerged for mapping images across domains. Let
x be an image in domain A and y be an image in domain B. A mapping function TAB is trained to map x to TAB(x) so that it appears as if it came from domain B. More generally, the distribution of TAB(x) is optimized to appear identical to that of y. The distributional alignment is enforced by training a discriminator D to discriminate between samples from p(TAB(x)) and samples from p(y), where we use p(x) to denote the distribution of x and p(TAB(x)) to denote the distribution of TAB(x) when x  p(x). At the same time TAB is optimized so that the discriminator will have a difficult task of discriminating between the distributions.

The loss function for training T and D are therefore:

LT = Lb(D(TAB(x)), 1)

(1)

LD = Lb(D(TAB(x)), 0) + Lb(D(y), 1)

(2)

Where Lb(, ) is a binary cross-entropy loss. The networks LD and LT are trained iteratively (as they act in opposite directions).

3

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

In many datasets, the distribution-constraint alone was found to be insufficient. Additional constraints have been effectively added such as circularity (cycle) (Zhu et al., 2017; Kim et al., 2017) and distance invariance (Benaim & Wolf, 2017). The popular cycle approach trains one-sided GANs in both the A  B and B  A directions, and then ensures that an A image domain translated to B (TAB(x)) and back to A (TBA(TBA(x))) recovers the original x.

Let L1 denote the L1 loss. The complete two-sided cycle loss function is given by:

LTdist = Lb(DA(TBA(y)), 1) + Lb(DB(TAB(x)), 1)

(3)

LTcycle = L1(TAB(TBA(y)), y) + L1(TBA(TAB(x)), x) LT = LTdist + LTcycle
LD = Lb(DA(TBA(y)), 0) + Lb(DA(x), 1) + Lb(DB(TAB(x)), 0) + Lb(DB(y), 1)

(4) (5) (6)

The above two-sided approach yields mapping function from A to B and back. This method provides matching between every sample and a synthetic image in the target domain (which generally does not correspond to an actual target domain sample), it therefore does not provide exact correspondences between the A and B domain images.

3.2 EXEMPLAR-BASED MATCHING

In the previous section, we described a distributional approach for mapping A domain image x to an image TAB(x) that appears to come from the B domain. In this section we provide a method for providing exact matches between domains.
Let us assume that for every A domain image xi there exists an analogous B domain image ymi . Our task is find the set of indices mi. Once the exact matching is recovered, we can also train a fully supervised mapping function TAB, and thus obtain a mapping function of the quality provided by supervised method.
Let i,j be the proposed match matrix between B domain image yj and A domain image xi, i.e., every xi matches a mixture of all samples in B, using weights i,:, and similarly for yj for a weighing using :,j of the training samples from A. Ideally, we should like a binary matrix with i,j = 1 for the proposed match and 0 for the rest. This task is formally written as:

Lp( i,j TAB(xi), yj ),
i

(7)

where Lp is a "perceptual loss", which is based on some norm, a predefined image representation, a Laplacian pyramid, or otherwise. See Sec. 3.4.

The optimization is continuous over TAB and binary programming over i,j. Since this is computationally hard, we replace the binary constraint on  by the following relaxed version:

i,j = 1
i
i,j  0
In order to enforce sparsity, we add an entropy constraint encouraging sparse solutions.

(8) (9)

Le = -i,j · log(i,j )
i,j
The final optimization objective becomes:

(10)

L =Texemplar

Lp( i,j TAB (xi), yj ) + kentropy · Le

ji

(11)

The positivity  >= 0 and i i,j = 1 constraints are enforced by using an auxiliary variable  and passing it through a Sof tmax function.

4

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

i,j = Sof tmaxi(i,j )

(12)

The relaxed formulation can be optimized using SGD. By increasing the significance of the entropy term (increasing kentropy), the solutions can converge to the original correspondence problem and exact correspondences are recovered at the limit.
Since  is multiplied with all mapped examples TAB(x), it might appear that mapping must be performed on all x samples at every batch update. We have however found that iteratively updating TAB for N epochs, and then updating  for N epochs (N = 10) achieves excellent results. Denote the  (and ) updates-  iterations and the updates of TAB - T iterations. The above training scheme requires the full mapping to be performed only once at the beginning of the  iteration (so once in 2N epochs).

3.3 AN-GAN

Although the examplar-based method in Sec. 3.2 is in principle able to achieve good matching, the optimization problem is quite hard. We have found that a good initialization of TAB is essential for obtaining good performance. We therefore present AN-GAN - a cross domain matching method that uses both exemplar and distribution based constraints.
The AN-GAN loss function consists of three separate constraint types:

1. Distributional loss LTdist : The distributions of TAB(x) matches y and TBA(y) matches x (Eq. 3).
2. Cycle loss L :Tcycle An image when mapped to the other domain and back should be unchanged (Eq. 4).
3. Exemplar loss L :Texemplar Each image should have a corresponding image in the other domain to which it is mapped (Eq. 11).

The AN-GAN optimization problem is given by:

LT = LTdist +  · LTcycle +  · LTexemplar

(13)

The optimization also adversarially trains the discriminators DA and DB as in equation Eq. 6.

Implementation: Initially  are all set to 0 giving all matches equal likelihood. We use an initial burn-in period of 200 epochs, during which  = 0 to ensure that TAB and TBA align the distribution before aligning individual images. We then optimize the examplar-loss for one -iteration of 22 epochs, one T -iteration of 10 epochs and another -iteration of 10 epochs (joint training of all losses did not yield improvements). The initial learning rate for the exemplar loss is 1e - 3 and it is decayed after 20 epochs by a factor of 2. We use the same architecture and hyper-parameters as CycleGAN Zhu et al. (2017) unless noted otherwise. In all experiments the  parameters are shared between the two mapping directions, to let the two directions inform each other as to likelihood of matches. All hyper-parameters were fixed across all experiments.

3.4 LOSS FUNCTION FOR IMAGES
In the previous sections we assumed a "good" loss function for determining similarity between actual and synthesized examples. In our experiments we found that Euclidean or L1 loss functions were typically not perceptual enough to provide good supervision. Using the Laplacian pyramid loss as in GLO (Bojanowski et al., 2017) does provide some improvement. The best performance was however achieved by using a perceptual loss function. This was also found in several prior works Dosovitskiy & Brox (2016), Johnson et al. (2016), Chen & Koltun (2017).
For a pair of images I1 and I2, our loss function first extracts VGG features for each image, with the number of feature maps used depending on the image resolution. We use the features extracted by the the second convolutional layer in each block, 4 layers in total for 64X64 resolution images and five layers fors 256X256 resolution images. We additionally also use the L1 loss on the pixels to ensure that the colors are taken into account. Let us define the feature maps for images I1 and I2 as m1 and 2m (m is an index running over the feature maps). Our perceptual loss function is:

5

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

Table 1: A  B / B  A top-1 accuracy for exact matching.

Method

F acades M aps E2S E2H

U nmapped - P ixel U nmapped - V GG CycleGAN - P ixel CycleGAN - V GG
 iterations only AN - GAN

0.00/0.00 0.13/0.00 0.00/0.41 0.51/0.34 0.76/0.91 0.97/0.98

0.00/0.00 0.00/0.00 0.01/0.41 0.02/0.47 0.83/0.73 0.87/0.87

0.06/0.00 0.09/0.06 0.02/0.20 0.21/0.31 0.52/0.86 0.89/0.98

0.11/0.00 0.02/0.04 0.01/0.00 0.19/0.00 0.74/0.76 0.94/0.91

Lp(I1, I2)

=

1 NP

L1(I1, I2)

+

m

1 Nm

L1(1m

,

m1 )

(14)

Where NP is the number of pixels and Nm is the number of features in layer m. We argue that using this loss, our method is still considered to be unsupervised matching, since the features are available off-the-shelf and are not tailored to our specific domains. Similar features have been extracted using completely unsupervised methods (see e.g. Donahue et al. (2016))

4 EXPERIMENTS
To evaluate our approach we conducted matching experiments on multiple public datasets. We have evaluated several scenarios: (i) Exact matches: Datasets on which all A and B domain images have exact corresponding matches. In this task the goal is to recover all the exact matches. (ii) Partial matches: Datasets on which some A and B domain images have exact corresponding matches. In this task the goal is to recover the actual matches and not be confused by the non-matching examples. (iii) Inexact matches: Datasets on which A and B domain images do not have exact matches. In this task the objective is to identify qualitatively similar matches.
We compare our method against a set of other methods exploring the state of existing solutions to cross-domain matching:
U nmapped - P ixel: Finding the nearest neighbor of the source image in the target domain using L1 loss on the raw pixels.
U nmapped - V GG: Finding the nearest neighbor of the source image in the target domain using VGG feature loss (as described in Sec. 3.4. Note that this method is computationally quite heavy due to the size of each feature. We therefore randomly subsampled every feature map to 32000 values, we believe this is a good estimate of the performance of the method.
CycleGAN - P ixel: Train Eqs. 5, 6 using the authors' CycleGAN code. Then use L1 to compute the nearest neighbor in the target set.
CycleGAN - V GG: Train Eqs. 5, 6 using the authors' CycleGAN code. Then use VGG loss to compute the nearest neighbor in the target set. The VGG features were subsampled as before due to the heavy computational cost.
 iterations only: Train AN - GAN as described in Sec. 3.3 but with  iterations only, without iterating over TXY .
AN - GAN : Train AN - GAN as described in Sec. 3.3 with both  and TXY iterations.
4.1 EXACT MATCHING EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate our method on 4 public exact match datasets:
Facades: 400 images of building facades aligned with segmentation maps of the buildings Radim Tylecek (2013).
Maps: The Maps dataset was scraped from Google Maps by Zhu et al. (2017). It consists of aligned Maps and corresponding satellite images. We use the 1096 images in the training set.

6

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
E2S: The original dataset contains around 50K images of shoes from the Zappos50K dataset (Yu & Grauman (2014)). The edge images were automatically detected by Isola et al. (2017) using HED (Xie & Tu (2015)).
E2H: The original dataset contains around 137k images of Amazon handbags (Zhu et al. (2016)). The edge images were automatically detected using HED by Isola et al. (2017).
For both E2S and E2H the datasets were randomly down-sampled to 2k images each to accommodate the memory complexity of our method. This shows that our method works also for moderately sized dataset.
4.1.1 UNSUPERVISED COMPLETE MATCH EXPERIMENTS
In this set of experiments, we compared our method with the five methods described above on the task of exact correspondence identification. For each evaluation, both A and B images are shuffled prior to training. The objective is recovering the full match function mi so that xi is matched to ymi . The performance metric is the percentage of images for which we have found the exact match in the other domain. This is calculated separately for A  B and B  A.
The results are presented in Table. 1. Several observations are apparent from the results: matching between the domains using pixels or deep features cannot solve this task. The domains used in our experiments are different enough such that generic features are not easily able to match between them. Simple mapping using CycleGAN and matching using pixel-losses does improve matching performance in most cases. This shows that the distribution matching is able to map source images that are semantically similar in the target domain. CycleGAN performance with simple matching however leaves much space for improvement.
The next baseline method matched perceptual features between the mapped source images and the target images. Perceptual features have generally been found to improve performance for image retrieval tasks. In this case we use VGG features as perceptual features as described in Sec. 3.4. We found exhaustive search too computationally expensive (either in memory or runtime) for our datasets, and this required subsampling the features. Perceptual features performed better than pixel matching.
We also run the  iterations step on mapped source domain images and target images. This method matched linear combinations of mapped images rather than a single image (the largest  component was selected as the match). This method is less sensitive to outliers and uses the same  parameters for both sides of the match (A  B and B  A) to improve identification. The performance of this method presented significant improvements.
We have also experimented (not shown) with optimizing the exemplar loss function only without the distributional and cycle constraints. In this scenario the optimizer was not able to converge to a low loss. This shows that a good initialization is important for this task.
Our full-method AN-GAN uses the full exemplar-based loss and can therefore optimize the mapping function so that each source sample matches the nearest target sample. It therefore obtained significantly better performance for all datasets and for both matching directions.
4.1.2 PARTIAL MATCHING EXPERIMENTS
In this set of experiments we used the same datasets as above but with M % of the matches being unavailable. In this scenario M % of the domain A samples do not have a match in the sample set in the B domain and similarly M % of the B images do not have a match in the A domain. (1 - M )% of A and B images contain exact matches in the opposite domain. The task is identification of the correct matches for all the samples that possess matches in the other domain. The evaluation metric is the percentage of images for which we found exact matches out of the total numbers of images that have an exact match. Apart from the removal of the samples resulting in M % of non-matching pairs, the protocol is identical to Sec. 4.1.1.
The results for partial exact matching are shown in Table. 2. It can be clearly observed that our method is able to deal with scenarios in which not all examples have matches. When 10% of samples do not have matches, results are comparable to the clean case. The results are not significantly lower for most datasets containing 25% of samples without exact matches. Although in the general case a
7

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

Table 2: A  B / B  A top-1 accuracy for partial matching.

Experiment

Dataset

M % Method

F acades M aps E2S E2H

0%  iteration only 0.76/0.91 0.83/0.73 0.52/0.86 0.74/0.76 0% AN - GAN 0.97/0.98 0.87/0.87 0.89/0.98 0.94/0.91

10%  iteration only 0.86/0.71 0.79/0.66 0.73/0.81 0.85/0.75 10% AN - GAN 0.96/0.96 0.86/0.88 0.99/0.99 0.93/0.84

25%  iteration only 0.73/0.70 0.77/0.67 0.66/0.87 0.83/0.87 25% AN - GAN 0.93/0.94 0.82/0.84 0.84/0.81 0.83/0.87

(a) (b) (c) (d)
Figure 2: Inexact matching scenarios: Three examples of Shoes2Handbags matching. (a) Source image. (b) AN-GAN analogy. (c) DiscoGAN +  iterations. (d) Mapping by DiscoGAN.
low exact match ratio lowers the quality of mapping function and decreases the quality of matching, we have observed that for several datasets (notably Facades), AN-GAN has achieved around 90% match rate with as much as 75% of samples not having matches.
4.2 INEXACT MATCHING EXPERIMENT
Although the main objective of this paper is identifying exact analogies, it is interesting to test our approach on scenarios in which no exact analogies are available. In this experiment, we qualitatively evaluate our method on finding similar matches in the case where an exact match is not available. We evaluate on the Shoes2Handbags scenario from Kim et al. (2017). As the CycleGAN architecture is not effective at non-localized mapping we used the DiscoGAN architecture for the mapping function (and all of the relevant hyper-parameters from that paper). In Fig. 2 we can observe several analogies made for the Shoes2Handbags dataset. The top example shows that when DiscoGAN is able to map correctly, matching works well for all methods. However in the bottom two rows, we can see examples that the quality of the DiscoGAN mapping is lower. In this case both the DiscoGAN map and DiscoGAN +  iterations present poor matches. On the other hand AN - GAN forced the match to be more relevant and therefore the analogies found by AN - GAN are better.
4.3 APPLYING A SUPERVISED METHOD ON TOP OF AN-GAN'S MATCHES
We have shown that our method is able to align datasets with high accuracy. We therefore suggested a two-step approach for training a mapping function between two datasets that contain exact matches
8

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

(a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
Figure 3: Supervised vs unsupervised image mapping: The supervised mapping is far more accurate than unsupervised mapping, which is often unable to match the correct colors (segmentation labels). Our method is able to find correspondences between the domains and therefore makes the unsupervised problem, effectively supervised. (a) Source image. (b) Unsupervised translation using CycleGAN. (c) A one to one method (Pix2Pix) as trained on AN-GAN's matching, which were obtained in an unsupervised way. (d) Fully supervised Pix2Pix mapping using correspondences. (e) Target image.

Table 3: Facades  Labels. Segmentation Test-Set Accuracy.

Method

Per-Pixel Acc. Per-Class Acc. Class IOU

C ycleGAN P ix2P ix with An - GAN matches P ix2P ix with supervision

0.425 0.535 0.531

0.252 0.366 0.358

0.163 0.258 0.250

but are unaligned: (i) Find analogies using AN - GAN , and (ii) Train a standard mapping function using the self-supervision from stage (i).
To evaluate this procedure we used AN - GAN to align the Facades training set. We are able to obtain 97% alignment accuracy. We used the alignment to train a fully self-supervised mapping function using Pix2Pix (Isola et al. (2017)). We evaluate on the facade photos to segmentations task as it allows for quantitative evaluation. In Fig. 3 we show two facade photos from the test set mapped by: CycleGAN, Pix2Pix trained on AN-GAN matches and a fully-supervised Pix2Pix approach. We can see that the images mapped by our method are of higher quality than CycleGAN and are about the fully-supervised quality. In Table. 3 we present a quantitative comparison on the task. As can be seen, our self-supervised method performs similarly to the fully supervised method, and much better than CycleGAN.
5 CONCLUSION
We presented an algorithm for performing cross domain matching in an unsupervised way. Previous work focused on mapping between images across domains, often resulting in mapped images that were too inaccurate to find their exact matches. In this work we introduced the exemplar constraint, specifically designed to improve match performance. Our method was evaluated on several public datasets for full and partial exact matching and has significantly outperformed baseline methods. It has been shown to work well even in cases where exact matches are not available. This paper presents an alternative view of domain translation. Instead of performing the full operation end-toend it is possible to (i) align the domains, and (ii) train a fully supervised mapping function between the aligned domains.
9

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
Future work is needed to explore matching between different modalities such as images, speech and text. As current distribution matching algorithms are insufficient for this challenging scenario, new ones would need to be developed in order to achieve this goal.
REFERENCES
Sagie Benaim and Lior Wolf. One-sided unsupervised domain mapping. In NIPS. 2017.
Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin, David Lopez-Paz, and Arthur Szlam. Optimizing the latent space of generative networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.05776, 2017.
Qifeng Chen and Vladlen Koltun. Photographic image synthesis with cascaded refinement networks. ICCV, 2017.
Jeff Donahue, Philipp Kra¨henbu¨hl, and Trevor Darrell. Adversarial feature learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1605.09782, 2016.
Alexey Dosovitskiy and Thomas Brox. Generating images with perceptual similarity metrics based on deep networks. In NIPS, 2016.
Yaroslav Ganin and Victor Lempitsky. Unsupervised domain adaptation by backpropagation. In ICML, 2015.
Leon A. Gatys, Alexander S. Ecker, and Matthias Bethge. Image style transfer using convolutional neural networks. In CVPR, 2016.
Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial nets. In NIPS, pp. 2672­2680. 2014.
Phillip Isola, Jun-Yan Zhu, Tinghui Zhou, and Alexei A Efros. Image-to-image translation with conditional adversarial networks. In CVPR, 2017.
Justin Johnson, Alexandre Alahi, and Li Fei-Fei. Perceptual losses for real-time style transfer and super-resolution. In ECCV, 2016.
Taeksoo Kim, Moonsu Cha, Hyunsoo Kim, Jungkwon Lee, and Jiwon Kim. Learning to discover cross-domain relations with generative adversarial networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.05192, 2017.
Ming-Yu Liu and Oncel Tuzel. Coupled generative adversarial networks. In NIPS, pp. 469­477. 2016.
David G Lowe. Distinctive image features from scale-invariant keypoints. ICCV, 2004.
Alec Radford, Luke Metz, and Soumith Chintala. Unsupervised representation learning with deep convolutional generative adversarial networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.06434, 2015.
Radim S a´ra Radim Tylecek. Spatial pattern templates for recognition of objects with regular structure. In Proc. GCPR, Saarbrucken, Germany, 2013.
O. Ronneberger, P.Fischer, and T. Brox. U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image segmentation. In Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention (MICCAI), volume 9351 of LNCS, pp. 234­241. Springer, 2015. URL http://lmb.informatik. uni-freiburg.de//Publications/2015/RFB15a. (available on arXiv:1505.04597 [cs.CV]).
Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image recognition. ICLR, 2015.
Yaniv Taigman, Adam Polyak, and Lior Wolf. Unsupervised cross-domain image generation. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2017.
10

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
D. Ulyanov, V. Lebedev, A. Vedaldi, and V. Lempitsky. Texture networks: Feed-forward synthesis of textures and stylized images. In ICML, 2016.
Jiang Wang, Yang Song, Thomas Leung, Chuck Rosenberg, Jingbin Wang, James Philbin, Bo Chen, and Ying Wu. Learning fine-grained image similarity with deep ranking. In CVPR, 2014.
Yingce Xia, Di He, Tao Qin, Liwei Wang, Nenghai Yu, Tie-Yan Liu, and Wei-Ying Ma. Dual learning for machine translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.00179, 2016.
Saining Xie and Zhuowen Tu. Holistically-nested edge detection. In ICCV, 2015. Zili Yi, Hao Zhang, Ping Tan, and Minglun Gong. Dualgan: Unsupervised dual learning for image-
to-image translation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.02510, 2017. Aron Yu and Kristen Grauman. Fine-grained visual comparisons with local learning. In CVPR,
2014. Jun-Yan Zhu, Philipp Kra¨henbu¨hl, Eli Shechtman, and Alexei A Efros. Generative visual manipu-
lation on the natural image manifold. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 597­613. Springer, 2016. Jun-Yan Zhu, Taesung Park, Phillip Isola, and Alexei A Efros. Unpaired image-to-image translation using cycle-consistent adversarial networkss. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.10593, 2017.
11

