Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

DECISION-BASED ADVERSARIAL ATTACKS: RELIABLE ATTACKS AGAINST BLACK-BOX MACHINE LEARNING MODELS
Anonymous authors Paper under double-blind review

ABSTRACT
Most modern machine learning algorithms are vulnerable to minimal and almost imperceptible perturbations of their inputs. So far it was unclear how much risk adversarial perturbations carry for the safety of real-world machine learning applications because most attack methods rely either on detailed model information (gradient-based attacks) or on confidence scores such as probability or logit outputs of the model (score-based attacks), neither of which are available in most real-world scenarios. In such cases, currently the only option are transfer-based attacks, however they need access to the training data, rely on cumbersome substitute models and are much easier to defend against. Here we introduce a new category of attacks - decision-based attacks - that rely solely on the final decision of a model. Decision-based attacks are therefore (1) applicable to real-world blackbox models such as autonomous cars, (2) need less knowledge and are easier to apply than transfer-based attacks and (3) are more robust to simple defences than gradient-based or score-based attacks. As a first effective representative of this category we introduce the Boundary Attack. This attack is conceptually simple, extremely flexible, requires close to no hyperparameter tuning and yields adversarial perturbations that are competitive with those produced by the best gradientbased attacks in standard computer vision applications. We demonstrate the attack on two real-world black-box models from Clarifai.com. The Boundary Attack in particular and the class of decision-based attacks in general thus open new avenues to study the robustness of machine learning models and raise new questions regarding the safety of deployed machine learning systems. An implementation of the Boundary Attack is available at XXXXXX.

Gradient-based Model M

Untargeted Flip to any label

FGSM, DeepFool

Targeted L-BFGS-B, Houdini, JSMA,

Flip to

Carlini & Wagner, Iterative

target label

Gradient Descent

Transfer-based Training Data T
FGSM Transfer
Ensemble Transfer

Score-based Detailed Model Prediction Y (e.g. probabilities or logits)
Local Search
ZOO

Decision-based Final Model Prediction Ymax (e.g. max class label)
less information
this work (Boundary Attack)

Clarifai Brand Classifier

Original

Adversarial

Tide No Logo

Apple Inc

No Logo

Figure 1: (Left) Taxonomy of adversarial attack methods. The Boundary Attack is applicable to realworld ML algorithms because it only needs access to the final decision of a model (e.g. class-label or transcribed sentence) and does not rely on model information like the gradient or the confidence scores. (Right) Application to the Clarifai Brand Recognition Model.

1 INTRODUCTION
Many high-performance machine learning algorithms used in computer vision, speech recognition and other areas are susceptible to minimal changes of their inputs (Szegedy et al., 2013). These socalled adversarial perturbations are often almost imperceptible to humans but change the predictions
1

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
of a model, see Figure 1 (right). Algorithms that seek to find such adversarial perturbations are generally denoted as adversarial attacks.
Adversarial perturbations have drawn interest from two different sides. On the one side, they are worrisome for the integrity and security of deployed machine learning algorithms such as autonomous cars or face recognition systems. Minimal perturbations on street signs (e.g. turning a stop-sign into a 200 km/h speed limit) or street lights (e.g. turning a red into a green light) can have severe consequences. On the other hand, adversarial perturbations provide an exciting spotlight on the gap between the sensory information processing in humans and machines and thus provide guidance towards more robust, human-like architectures.
Adversarial attacks can be roughly divided into three categories: gradient-based, score-based and transfer-based attacks (cp. Figure 1). Gradient-based and score-based attacks are often denoted as white-box and oracle attacks respectively, but we try to be as explicit as possible as to what information is being used in each category1. A severe problem affecting attacks in all categories is that they are surprisingly straight-forward to defend against:
· Gradient-based attacks. Most existing attacks rely on detailed model information including the gradient of the loss w.r.t. the input. Examples are the Fast-Gradient Sign Method (FGSM), the Basic Iterative Method (BIM) (Kurakin et al., 2016), DeepFool (MoosaviDezfooli et al., 2015), the Jacobian-based Saliency Map Attack (JSMA) (Papernot et al., 2015), Houdini (Cisse et al., 2017) and Carlini & Wagner (Carlini & Wagner, 2016b). Defence: A simple way to defend against gradient-based attacks is to mask the gradients, for example by adding non-differentiable elements either implicitly through means like defensive distillation (Papernot et al., 2016b) or saturated non-linearities (Nayebi & Ganguli, 2017b), or explicitly through means like non-differentiable classifiers (Lu et al., 2017).
· Score-based attacks. A few attacks are more agnostic and only rely on the predicted scores (e.g. class probabilities or logits) of the model. On a conceptual level these attacks use the predictions to numerically estimate the gradient. This includes black-box variants of JSMA (Narodytska & Kasiviswanathan, 2016) and of the Carlini & Wagner attack (Chen et al., 2017) as well as generator networks that predict adversarials (Hayes & Danezis, 2017). Defence: It is straight-forward to severely impede the numerical gradient estimate by adding stochastic elements like dropout into the model. Also, many robust training methods introduce a sharp-edged plateau around samples (Tramer et al., 2017) which not only masks gradients themselves but also their numerical estimate.
· Transfer-based attacks. Transfer-based attacks do not rely on model information but need information about the training data. This data is used to train a fully observable substitute model from which adversarial perturbations can be synthesised (Papernot et al., 2016a). They rely on the empirical observation that adversarial examples often transfer between models. If adversarial examples are created on an ensemble of substitute models the success rate on the attacked model can reach up to 100% in certain scenarios (Liu et al., 2016). Defence: A recent defence method against transfer attacks (Tramer et al., 2017), which is based on robust training on a dataset augmented by adversarial examples from an ensemble of substitute models, has proven highly successful against basically all attacks in the recent Kaggle Competition on Adversarial Attacks2.
The fact that many attacks can be easily averted makes it often extremely difficult to assess whether a model is truly robust or whether the attacks are just too weak, which has lead to premature claims of robustness for DNNs (Carlini & Wagner, 2016a; Brendel & Bethge, 2017). Additionally, real-world deployed machine learning models appear unreasonably safe: if the model is suitably defended against transfer-based attacks and only returns its final decision, then no existing attack is able to break it.
This motivates us to introduce a new category of adversarial attacks:
· Decision-based attacks. Direct attacks that solely rely on the final decision of the model (such as the top-1 class label or the transcribed sentence).
1For example, the term oracle does not convey what information is used by attacks in this category. 2https://www.kaggle.com/c/nips-2017-defense-against-adversarial-attack
2

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
The delineation of this new category is justified for the following reasons: First, compared to scorebased attacks decision-based attacks are much more relevant in real-world machine learning applications where confidence scores or logits are rarely accessible. At the same time decision-based attacks have the potential to be much more robust to standard defences like gradient masking, intrinsic stochasticity or robust training than attacks from the other categories. Finally, compared to transfer-based attacks they need much less information about the model (neither architecture nor training data) and are much simpler to apply.
There currently exists no effective decision-based attack. Some naive attacks such as a line-search along a random direction away from the original sample can qualify as decision-based attacks but they induce large and very visible perturbations that are orders of magnitude larger than typical gradient-based, score-based or transfer-based attacks.
The contributions of this paper are as follows:
· We introduce decision-based attacks as a new and important category of adversarial attacks that operate solely on the final decision of a model. We argue that this category is highly relevant for real-world applications and important to gauge model robustness.
· We introduce the first effective decision-based attack. The Boundary Attack is (1) conceptually surprisingly simple, (2) extremely flexible, (3) requires little hyperparameter tuning and (4) is competitive with the best gradient-based attacks in both targeted and untargeted computer vision scenarios.
· We show that the Boundary Attack is able to break previously suggested defence mechanisms like defensive distillation.
· We demonstrate the practical applicability of the Boundary Attack on two black-box machine learning models for brand and celebrity recognition available on Clarifai.com.
1.1 NOTATION
Throughout the paper we use the following notation: o refers to the original input (e.g. an image), y = F (o) refers to the full prediction of the model F (.) (e.g. logits or probabilities), ymax is the predicted label (e.g. class-label). Similarly, o~ refers to the adversarially perturbed image, o~k refers to the perturbed image at the k-th step of an attack algorithm. Vectors are denoted in bold.
2 BOUNDARY ATTACK
The basic intuition behind the boundary attack algorithm is depicted in Figure 2: the algorithm is initialised from a point that is already adversarial and then performs a random walk along the boundary between the adversarial and the non-adversarial region such that (1) it stays in the adversarial region and (2) the distance towards the target image is reduced. In other words we perform rejection sampling with a suitable proposal distribution P to find progressively smaller adversarial perturbations according to a given adversarial criterion c(.). The basic logic of the algorithm is described in Algorithm 1, each individual building block is detailed in the next subsections.
2.1 INITIALISATION
The Boundary Attack needs to be initialised with a sample that is already adversarial. In an untargeted scenario we simply sample from a maximum entropy distribution given the valid domain of the input. In the computer vision applications below, where the input is constrained to a range of [0, 255] per pixel, we sample each pixel in the initial image o~0 from a uniform distribution U(0, 255). We reject samples that are not adversarial. In a targeted scenario we start from any sample that is classified by the model as being from the target class.
2.2 PROPOSAL DISTRIBUTION
The efficiency of the algorithm crucially depends on the proposal distribution P, i.e. which random directions are explored in each step of the algorithm. The optimal proposal distribution will generally depend on the domain and / or model to be attacked, but for all vision-related problems tested here
3

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

Basic Intuition
starting image

Single step
#1. random orthogonal step #2. step towards original image

Hyperparameters
Adjusting step-size of #1

Input Dimension 1

steps of the algorithm
original image classified correctly
classified incorrectly (adversarial) Input Dimension 2

#1 #2

sphere around original image (equidistant)

~50% of orthogonal perturbations should be within adversarial region
Adjusting step-size of #2

classified correctly

Success rate of total perturbation should be higher then threshold (e.g. 25%).

Figure 2: (Left) In essence the Boundary Attack performs rejection sampling along the boundary between adversarial and non-adversarial images. (Center) In each step we draw a new random direction by (#1) drawing from an iid Gaussian and projecting on a sphere, and by (#2) making a small move towards the target image. (Right) The two step-sizes (orthogonal and towards the original input) are dynamically adjusted according to the local geometry of the boundary.

Data: original image o, adversarial criterion c(.), decision of model d(.)

Result: adversarial example o~ such that the distance d(o, o~) =

o

- o~

2 2

is

minimized

initialization: k = 0, o~0  U (0, 1) s.t. o~0 is adversarial;

while k < maximum number of steps do

draw random perturbation from proposal distribution k  P(o~k-1);

if o~k-1 + k is adversarial then set o~k = o~k-1 + k;
else

set o~k = o~k-1;

end

k = k+1

end

Algorithm 1: Minimal version of the Boundary Attack.

a very simple proposal distribution worked surprisingly well. The basic idea behind this proposal distribution is as follows: in the k-th step we want to draw perturbations k from a maximum
entropy distribution subject to the following constraints:

1. The perturbed sample lies within the input domain,

o~ki -1 + ik  [0, 255].

(1)

2. The perturbation has a relative size of ,

k 2 =  · d(o, o~k-1).

(2)

3. The perturbation reduces the distance of the perturbed image towards the original input by a relative amount ,

d(o, ~ok-1) - d(o, ~ok-1 + k) = · d(o, ~ok-1).

(3)

In practice it is difficult to sample from this distribution, and so we resort to a simpler heuristic: first, we sample from an iid Gaussian distribution ik  N (0, 1) and then rescale and clip the sample such that (1) and (2) hold. In a second step we project k onto a sphere around the original image o such that d(o, o~k-1 + k) = d(o, o~k-1) and (1) hold. We denote this as the orthogonal perturbation
and use it later for hyperparameter tuning. In the last step we make a small movement towards the original image such that (1) and (3) hold. For high-dimensional inputs and small , the constraint
(2) will also hold approximately.

4

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
2.3 ADVERSARIAL CRITERION
A typical criterion by which an input is classified as adversarial is misclassification, i.e. whether the model assigns the perturbed input to some class different from the class label of the original input. Another common choice is targeted misclassification for which the perturbed input has to be classified in a given target class. Other choices include top-k misclassification (the top-k classes predicted for the perturbed input do not contain the original class label) or thresholds on certain confidence scores. Outside of computer vision many other choices exist such as criteria on the worderror rates. In comparison to most other attacks, the Boundary Attack is extremely flexible with regards to the adversarial criterion. It basically allows any criterion (including non-differentiable ones) as long as for that criterion an initial adversarial can be found (which is trivial in most cases).
2.4 HYPERPARAMETER ADJUSTMENT
The Boundary Attack has only two relevant parameters: the length of the total perturbation  and the length of the step towards the original input (see Fig. 2). We adjust both parameters dynamically according to the local geometry of the boundary. The adjustment is inspired by Trust Region methods. In essence, we first test whether the orthogonal perturbation is still adversarial. If this is true, then we make a small movement towards the target and test again. The orthogonal step tests whether the step-size is small enough so that we can treat the decision boundary between the adversarial and the non-adversarial region as being approximately linear. If this is the case, then we expect around 50% of the orthogonal perturbations to still be adversarial. If this ratio is much lower, we reduce the step-size , if it is close to 50% or higher we increase it. If the orthogonal perturbation is still adversarial we add a small step towards the original input. The maximum size of this step depends on the angle of the decision boundary in the local neighbourhood (see also Figure 2). If the success rate is too small we decrease , if it is too large we increase it. Typically, the closer we get to the original image, the flatter the decision boundary becomes and the smaller has to be to still make progress. The attack is converged whenever converges to zero.
3 COMPARISON WITH OTHER ATTACKS
We quantify the performance of the Boundary Attack on three different standard datasets: MNIST (LeCun et al., 1998), CIFAR-10 (Krizhevsky & Hinton, 2009) and ImageNet-1000 (Deng et al., 2009). To make the comparison with previous results as easy and transparent as possible, we here use the same MNIST and CIFAR networks as Carlini & Wagner (2016b)3. In a nutshell, both the MNIST and CIFAR model feature nine layers with four convolutional layers, two max-pooling layers and two fully-connected layers. For all details, including training parameters, we refer the reader to (Carlini & Wagner, 2016b). On ImageNet we use the pretrained networks VGG-19 (Simonyan & Zisserman, 2014), ResNet-50 (He et al., 2015) and Inception-v3 (Szegedy et al., 2015) provided by Keras4.
We evaluate the Boundary Attack in two settings: an (1) untargeted setting in which the adversarial perturbation flips the label of the original sample to any other label, and a (2) targeted setting in which the adversarial flips the label to a specific target class. In the untargeted setting we compare the Boundary Attack against three gradient-based attack algorithms:
· Fast-Gradient Sign Method (FGSM). FGSM is among the simplest and most widely used untargeted adversarial attack methods. In a nutshell, FGSM computes the gradient g = oL(o, c) that maximizes the loss L for the true class-label c and then seeks the smallest for which o+ ·g is still adversarial. We use the implementation in Foolbox v0.10 (Rauber et al., 2017).
· DeepFool. DeepFool is a simple yet very effective attack. In each iteration it computes for each class = 0 the minimum distance d( , 0) that it takes to reach the class boundary by approximating the model classifier with a linear classifier. It then makes a corresponding step in the direction of the class with the smallest distance. We use the implementation in Foolbox v0.10 (Rauber et al., 2017).
3https://github.com/carlini/nn_robust_attacks (commit 1193c79) 4https://github.com/fchollet/keras (commit 1b5d54)
5

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

MNIST

CIFAR

ImageNet (VGG-19)

Difference Adversarial Original

Figure 3: Adversarial examples generated by the Boundary Attack for an MNIST, CIFAR and ImageNet network. For MNIST, the difference shows positive (blue) and negative (red) changes. For CIFAR and ImageNet, we take the norm across color channels. All differences have been scaled up for improved visibility.

· Carlini & Wagner. The attack by Carlini & Wagner (Carlini & Wagner, 2016b) is es-
sentially a refined iterative gradient attack that uses the Adam optimizer, multiple starting
points, a tanh-nonlinearity to respect box-constraints and a max-based adversarial con-
straint function. We use the original implementation provided by the authors with all hyperparameters left at their default values5.

To evaluate the success of each attack we use the following metric: let A,M (oi)  RN be the
adversarial perturbation that the attack A finds on model M for the i-th sample oi. The total score SA for A is the median squared L2-distance across all samples,

SA(M ) = median
i

1 N

A,M (oi)

2 2

.

(4)

For MNIST and CIFAR we evaluate 1000 randomly drawn samples from the validation set, for ImageNet we use 250 images.

3.1 UNTARGETED ATTACK
In the untargeted setting an adversarial is any image for which the predicted label is different from the label of the original image. We show adversarial samples synthesised by the Boundary Attack for each dataset in Figure 3. The score (4) for each attack and each dataset is as follows6:

Attack Type

FGSM

gradient-based

DeepFool

gradient-based

Carlini & Wagner gradient-based

Boundary (ours) decision-based

MNIST 4.2e-02 4.3e-03 2.2e-03 3.6e-03

CIFAR 2.5e-05 5.8e-06 7.5e-06 5.3e-06

VGG-19
1.0e-06 1.9e-07 5.7e-07 1.8e-066

ImageNet

ResNet-50 Inception-v3

1.0e-06

9.7e-07

7.5e-08

5.2e-08

2.2e-07

7.6e-08

7.2e-076

4.3e-076

Despite its simplicity the Boundary Attack is competitive with gradient-based attacks in terms of the minimal adversarial perturbations6. This finding is quite remarkable given that gradient-based attacks can fully observe the model whereas the Boundary Attack is severely restricted to the final class prediction. To compensate for this lack of information the Boundary Attack needs many more iterations to converge. As a rough measure for the run-time of an attack independent of the quality of its implementation we tracked the number of forward passes (predictions) and backward passes (gradients) through the network requested by each of the attacks to find an adversarial for ResNet-50: averaged over 20 samples and under the same conditions as before, DeepFool needs
5https://github.com/carlini/nn_robust_attacks (commit 1193c79) 6The scores of the Boundary Attack on ImageNet are preliminary. We observed that 10.000 steps was not enough to converge and we are currently re-running the experiments with 100.000 steps.

6

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

0 calls 80 calls 454 calls 711 calls 1053 calls 1229 calls 1828 calls

1.4e-01 5.6e-02 1.8e-02 1.7e-02 8.0e-03 2.1e-03 5.6e-04 2476 calls 3470 calls 4513 calls 5601 calls 8272 calls 42213 calls 200667 calls Original

3.3e-04 1.7e-04 1.1e-04 7.7e-05 4.4e-05 6.1e-06 1.2e-06
Figure 4: Example of an untargeted attack. Here the goal is to synthesise an image that is as close as possible (in L2-metric) to the original image while being misclassified (the original image is correctly classified). For each image we report the total number of model calls (predictions) until that point (above the image) and the mean squared error between the adversarial and the original (below the image).

about 7 forward and 37 backward passes, the Carlini & Wagner attack requires 16.000 forward and the same number of backward passes, and the Boundary Attack uses 107.000 forward passes and no backward passes. While that (unsurprisingly) makes the Boundary Attack more expensive to run than Carlini & Wagner, it is still within one order of magnitude. Moreover, an image that is perceptually indistinguishable to the original image is already reached after a much smaller number of steps, see Figure 4.

3.2 TARGETED ATTACK
We can also apply the Boundary Attack in a targeted setting. In this case we initialise the attack from a sample of the target class that is correctly identified by the model. A sample trajectory from the target sample to the original sample is shown in Figure 5. After around 104 calls to the model the perturbed image is already clearly identified as a cat by humans and contains no trace of the dalmatian dog, as which the image is still classified by the model.
In order to compare the Boundary Attack to Carlini & Wagner we define the target target label for each sample in the following way: on MNIST and CIFAR a sample with label gets the target label
+ 1 modulo 10. On ImageNet we draw the target label randomly but consistent across attacks. The results are as follows:

Carlini & Wagner Boundary (ours)

Attack Type gradient-based decision-based

MNIST CIFAR VGG-19
4.8e-03 3.0e-05 5.7e-06 6.8e-03 3.4e-05 2.2e-046

7

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

0 calls

613 calls

2449 calls

4039 calls

5455 calls

13301 calls

15981 calls

18184 calls

20813 calls

23292 calls

56650 calls

67519 calls

155433 calls

416094 calls

original

Figure 5: Example of a targeted attack. Here the goal is to synthesise an image that is as close as possible (in L2-metric) to a given image of a tiger cat (second row, right side) but is classified as a dalmatian dog. For each image we report the total number of model calls (predictions) until that point.

4 THE IMPORTANCE OF DECISION-BASED ATTACKS TO EVALUATE MODEL
ROBUSTNESS

As discussed in the introduction, many attack methods are straight-forward to defend against. One common nuisance is gradient masking in which a model is implicitely or explicitely modified to yield masked gradients. One interesting example is the saturated sigmoid network (Nayebi & Ganguli, 2017a) in which an additional regularization term leads the sigmoid activations to saturate, which in turn leads to vanishing gradients and failing gradient-based attacks (Brendel & Bethge, 2017).

Another example is defensive distillation (Papernot et al., 2016b). In a nutshell defensive distillation uses a temperature-augmented softmax of the type

exi/T sof tmax(x, T )i = j exj/T

(5)

and works as follows:

1. Train a teacher network as usual but with temperature T .
2. Train a distilled network - with the same architecture as the teacher - on the softmax outputs of the teacher. Both the distilled network and the teacher use temperature T .
3. Evaluate the distilled network at temperature T = 1 at test time.

Initial results were promising: the success rate of gradient-based attacks dropped from close to 100% down to 0.5%. It later became clear that the distilled networks only appeared to be robust because they masked their gradients of the cross-entropy loss (Carlini & Wagner, 2016a): as the temperature of the softmax is decreased at test time, the input to the softmax increases by a factor of T and so the probabilities saturate at 0 and 1. This leads to vanishing gradients of the cross-entropy loss w.r.t. to the input on which gradient-based attacks rely. If the same attacks are instead applied to the logits the success rate recovers to almost 100% (Carlini & Wagner, 2016b).
Decision-based attacks are immune to such defences. To demonstrate this we here apply the Boundary Attack to two distilled networks trained on MNIST and CIFAR. The architecture is the same as in section 3 and we use the implementation and training protocol by (Carlini & Wagner, 2016b) which is available at https://github.com/carlini/nn_robust_attacks. Most importantly, we do not operate on the logits but provide only the class label with maximum probability to the Boundary Attack. The results are as follows:

FGSM Boundary (ours)

Attack Type gradient-based decision-based

MNIST

standard distilled

4.2e-02

fails

3.6e-03 4.2e-03

CIFAR

standard distilled

2.5e-05

fails

5.3e-06 1.4e-05

8

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018

Clarifai Brand Model

Clarifai Celebrity Model

SAP

UPS

Mercedes

Shell

Samsung

J. Lawrence

J. Depp

E. Stone

G. Clooney L. DiCaprio

Warner Brothers No Logo

No Logo

No Logo

No Logo

H. Hasselhoff C. Aguilera K. Williams D. Hoffman

J. Terry

Adversarial Original

Figure 6: Adversarial examples generated by the Boundary Attack for two black-box models by Clarifai for brand-detection (left side) and celebrity detection (right side).

The size of the adversarial perturbations that the Boundary Attack finds is fairly similar for the distilled and the undistilled network. This demonstrates that defensive distillation does not significantly increase the robustness of network models and that the Boundary Attack is able to break defences based on gradient masking.
5 ATTACKS ON REAL-WORLD APPLICATIONS
In many real-world machine learning applications the attacker has no access to the architecture or the training data but can only observe the final decision. This is true for security systems (e.g. face identification), autonomous cars or speech recognition systems like Alexa or Cortana.
In this section we apply the Boundary Attack to two models of the cloud-based computer vision API by Clarifai7. The first model identifies brand names in natural images and recognizes over 500 brands. The second model identifies celebrities and can recognize over 10.000 individuals. Multiple identifications per image are possible but we only consider the one with the highest confidence score. It is important to note that Clarifai does provide confidence scores for each identified class (but not for all possible classes). However, in our experiments we do not provide this confidence score to the Boundary Attack. Instead, our attack only receives the name of the identified object (e.g. Pepsi or Verizon in the brand-name detection task).
We selected several samples of natural images with clearly visible brand names or portraits of celebrities. We then make a square crop and resize the image to 100 × 100 pixels. For each sample we make sure that the brand or the celebrity is clearly visible and that the corresponding Clarifai model correctly identifies the content. The adversarial criterion was misclassification, i.e. Clarifai should report a different brand/celebrity or None on the adversarially perturbed sample.
We show five samples for each model alongside the adversarial image generated by the Boundary Attack in Figure 6. We generally observed that the Clarifai models were more difficult to attack than ImageNet models like VGG-19: while for some samples we did succeed to find adversarial perturbations of the same order (1e-7) as in section 3 (e.g. for Shell or SAP), most adversarial perturbations were on the order of 1e-2 to 1e-3 resulting in some slightly noticeable noise in some adversarial examples. Nonetheless, for most samples the original and the adversarial image are close to being perceptually indistinguishable.
6 DISCUSSION & OUTLOOK
In this paper we introduced a new category of adversarial attacks - decision-based attacks - that can find adversarial examples in models for which only the final decision can be observed. We argue that this category is important for three reasons: first, attacks in this class are highly relevant for many real-world deployed machine learning systems like autonomous cars for which the internal decision making process is unobservable. Second, attacks in this class do not rely on substitute models that are trained on similar data as the model to be attacked, thus making real-world applications much

7www.clarifai.com

9

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
more straight-forward. Third, attacks in this class have the potential to be much more robust against common deceptions like gradient masking, intrinsic stochasticity or robust training.
We also introduced the first effective attack - the Boundary Attack - in this category. At its core the Boundary Attack follows the decision boundary between adversarial and non-adversarial samples using a very simple rejection sampling algorithm in conjunction with a simple proposal distribution and a dynamic step-size adjustment inspired by Trust Region methods. Besides being surprisingly simple, the Boundary attack is also extremely flexible in terms of the possible adversarial criteria and performs on par with gradient-based attacks on standard computer vision tasks in terms of the size of minimal perturbations.
The mere fact that a simple constrained iid Gaussian distribution can serve as an effective proposal perturbation for each step of the Boundary attack is surprising and sheds light on the brittle information processing of current computer vision architectures. Nonetheless, there are many ways in which the Boundary attack can be made even more effective, in particular by learning a suitable proposal distribution for a given model or by conditioning the proposal distribution on the recent history of successful and unsuccessful proposals.
Decision-based attacks will be highly relevant to assess the robustness of machine learning models and to highlight the security risks of closed-source machine learning systems like autonomous cars. We hope that the Boundary attack will inspire future work in this area.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Paper under double-blind review
REFERENCES
Wieland Brendel and Matthias Bethge. Comment on "biologically inspired protection of deep networks from adversarial attacks". CoRR, abs/1704.01547, 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/ abs/1704.01547.
Nicholas Carlini and David Wagner. Defensive distillation is not robust to adversarial examples. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.04311, 2016a.
Nicholas Carlini and David A. Wagner. Towards evaluating the robustness of neural networks. CoRR, abs/1608.04644, 2016b. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.04644.
Pin-Yu Chen, Huan Zhang, Yash Sharma, Jinfeng Yi, and Cho-Jui Hsieh. Zoo: Zeroth order optimization based black-box attacks to deep neural networks without training substitute models. CoRR, abs/1708.03999, 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.03999.
Moustapha Cisse, Yossi Adi, Natalia Neverova, and Joseph Keshet. Houdini: Fooling deep structured prediction models. CoRR, abs/1707.05373, 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/ 1707.05373.
Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2009. CVPR 2009. IEEE Conference on, pp. 248­255. IEEE, 2009.
Jamie Hayes and George Danezis. Machine learning as an adversarial service: Learning blackbox adversarial examples. CoRR, abs/1708.05207, 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/ 1708.05207.
Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. CoRR, abs/1512.03385, 2015. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385.
Alex Krizhevsky and Geoffrey Hinton. Learning multiple layers of features from tiny images. Technical report, University of Toronto, 2009.
Alexey Kurakin, Ian J. Goodfellow, and Samy Bengio. Adversarial examples in the physical world. CoRR, abs/1607.02533, 2016. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1607.02533.
10

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2018
Yann LeCun, Le´on Bottou, Yoshua Bengio, and Patrick Haffner. Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition. Proceedings of the IEEE, 86(11):2278­2324, 1998.
Yanpei Liu, Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, and Dawn Song. Delving into transferable adversarial examples and black-box attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.02770, 2016.
Jiajun Lu, Theerasit Issaranon, and David A. Forsyth. Safetynet: Detecting and rejecting adversarial examples robustly. CoRR, abs/1704.00103, 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1704. 00103.
Seyed-Mohsen Moosavi-Dezfooli, Alhussein Fawzi, and Pascal Frossard. Deepfool: a simple and accurate method to fool deep neural networks. CoRR, abs/1511.04599, 2015. URL http: //arxiv.org/abs/1511.04599.
Nina Narodytska and Shiva Prasad Kasiviswanathan. Simple black-box adversarial perturbations for deep networks. CoRR, abs/1612.06299, 2016. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1612. 06299.
Aran Nayebi and Surya Ganguli. Biologically inspired protection of deep networks from adversarial attacks. CoRR, abs/1703.09202, 2017a. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.09202.
Aran Nayebi and Surya Ganguli. Biologically inspired protection of deep networks from adversarial attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.09202, 2017b.
Nicolas Papernot, Patrick D. McDaniel, Somesh Jha, Matt Fredrikson, Z. Berkay Celik, and Ananthram Swami. The limitations of deep learning in adversarial settings. CoRR, abs/1511.07528, 2015. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.07528.
Nicolas Papernot, Patrick McDaniel, Ian Goodfellow, Somesh Jha, Z Berkay Celik, and Ananthram Swami. Practical black-box attacks against deep learning systems using adversarial examples. arXiv preprint arXiv:1602.02697, 2016a.
Nicolas Papernot, Patrick McDaniel, Xi Wu, Somesh Jha, and Ananthram Swami. Distillation as a defense to adversarial perturbations against deep neural networks. In Security and Privacy (SP), 2016 IEEE Symposium on, pp. 582­597. IEEE, 2016b.
Jonas Rauber, Wieland Brendel, and Matthias Bethge. Foolbox v0.8.0: A python toolbox to benchmark the robustness of machine learning models. CoRR, abs/1707.04131, 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.04131.
Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image recognition. CoRR, abs/1409.1556, 2014. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1556.
Christian Szegedy, Wojciech Zaremba, Ilya Sutskever, Joan Bruna, Dumitru Erhan, Ian Goodfellow, and Rob Fergus. Intriguing properties of neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6199, 2013.
Christian Szegedy, Vincent Vanhoucke, Sergey Ioffe, Jonathon Shlens, and Zbigniew Wojna. Rethinking the inception architecture for computer vision. CoRR, abs/1512.00567, 2015. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.00567.
Florian Tramer, Alexey Kurakin, Nicolas Papernot, Dan Boneh, and Patrick McDaniel. Ensemble adversarial training: Attacks and defenses. CoRR, abs/1705.07204, May 2017. URL http: //arxiv.org/abs/1705.07204.
11

